===== Page 1 =====
Straits. 1941

No. 50216

CO273/666/9

SUBJECT.

Estimates.

1942

Previous 50216/40

Subsequent

===== Page 2 =====
The image provided does not contain any text content. It appears to be a blank or empty document with no visible lines, text, or images.

===== Page 3 =====
The image provided does not contain any text content. It appears to be a blank or empty document with no visible content.

===== Page 4 =====
1. S.S. tel. 963 13-12-41

2. S.S. no. 189 17.12.41
Have dismissed with Mr. Gavr.
With the Colony returned to the Malagasy Island of Singapore, it is strictly to protect the domestic three stricken. Newspapers, though they are, may have some purpose to tell us in depth about it.
Papers should be recalculated in 2 months then to consider whether anything should be sent to the Governor.

3. To S.S. Gl. 246 2 and 7.2.42.

There is a note above.

Dugaille 7/4.

Purty 7.7/4 and

The 19th of the Estimate for 1922 has been extracted temporarily and lent to Mr. Boud, Treasury.

W. J. Heathood 13/4.

===== Page 5 =====
LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.

SINGAPORE, MONDAY, 13TH OCTOBER, 1941.

10.30 a.m.

TABLE OF CONTENTS.
Pages 147 to 180.

NEW MEMBER.
Mr. R. WILLIAMSON (on re-appointment).

TRIBUTE TO THE LATE SIR ONG SIANG SONG, K.B.E., V.D.
THE GOVERNOR.

ADDRESS BY HIS EXCELLENCY THE GOVERNOR.

Papers laid on the Table.
Nos. 43 to 54.
Draft Estimates, 1942.

MOTIONS.

THE COLONIAL SECRETARY:
Adoption of the Reports of the Finance Committee on Messages Nos. 10, 11, 12, of 1941 and 26 of 1940.

THE ATTORNEY-GENERAL:
Amendment to the Traffic Regulation Ordinance.
Amendment to the Public Trustee (Fees) Rules, 1938.
Amendment to the Singapore Port Rules.

THE ACTING FINANCIAL SECRETARY:
Approval of the Draft Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure for the year 1942.

BILLS.

Trading with the Enemy (Amendment) ... 3rd Reading.
King Edward VII College of Medicine (Amendment) ... 1st Reading.
Trade Marks (Amendment) ... 1st Reading.
Registration of United Kingdom Patents (Amendment) ... 1st Reading.
Cocos Islands ... 1st Reading.
Trade Unions (Amendment) ... 1st Reading.
Labour (Amendment) ... 1st Reading.
War Tax (Amendment No. 2) ... All stages.
Labuan (Amendment) ... All stages.
Compulsory Service (Local Forces) (Amendment) ... All stages.
Final Supply ... 1st Reading.
Banishment (Amendment) ... 2nd Reading.
Do. do. ... Committee.
Do. do. ... 3rd Reading.
Pensions (Amendment) ... 2nd Reading.
Do. Do. ... Committee.
Do. Do. ... 3rd Reading.

===== Page 6 =====
BILLS.—continued.

Trade Disputes... 2nd Reading.
Do... Committee.
Volunteer Air Force (Amendment)... 2nd Reading.
Do. do. do... Committee.
Do. do. do... 3rd Reading.
Controlled Plants... 2nd Reading.
Do... Committee.
Do... 3rd Reading.
Personal Injuries (Emergency Provisions)... 2nd Reading.
Do do. do... Committee.
Do do. do... 3rd Reading.

ADJOURNMENT.

Government aid to Graduates of the Farm School at Ayer Hitam. Mr. KHOO SIAN EWE.

Circular 13 of 1941. Capt. N. M. HASHIM.
Mr. CLAUDE DA SILVA.
THE COLONIAL SECRETARY.

Colony's man-power. Lt. Col. E. A. DE BURIATTE.
THE COLONIAL SECRETARY.

Administration of Indian Immigration Fund. Mr. P. SAMMY.
THE COLONIAL SECRETARY.

The Council adjourned.

===== Page 7 =====
LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.

SINGAPORE, MONDAY, 13TH OCTOBER, 1941.

10.30 a.m.

PRESENT:

HIS EXCELLENCY THE GOVERNOR (Sir SHENTON THOMAS, G.C.M.G., O.B.E.).

The General Officer Commanding the Troops, Malaya (Lieut.-General A. E. PERCIVAL, C.B., D.S.O., O.B.E., M.C.).

The Honourable the Colonial Secretary (Mr. S. W. JONES, C.M.G.).
The Acting Resident Councillor, Penang (Mr. L. FORBES).
The Attorney-General (Mr. C. G. HOWELL, K.C.).
The Acting Financial Secretary (Mr. A. SLEEP).
The Director of Public Works (Major R. L. NUNN, D.S.O.).
The Resident Councillor, Malacca (Mr. G. W. BRYANT).
The Director of Education (Dr. W. LINEHAN, D.LITT.).
The Secretary for Chinese Affairs (Mr. A. B. JORDAN).
The Director of Medical Services (Dr. R. B. MACGREGOR).
The Acting Commissioner of Lands (Mr. C. W. A. SENNETT).
Mr. A. H. DICKINSON, O.B.E.
Mr. L. A. ALLEN, O.B.E.
Mr. F. D. BISSEKER.
Mr. J. I. DAWSON.
Dr. LIM HAN HOE, C.B.E.
Mr. KHOO SIAN EWE, O.B.E.
Mr. TAY LIAN TECK.
Mr. G. WISEMAN.
Mr. R. WILLIAMSON.
Captain N. M. HASHIM, I.S.O.
Mr. E. N. C. WOOLLERTON.
Lieut.-Col. E. A. DE BURIATTE, E.D.
Mr. C. H. DA SILVA.
Mr. E. C. H. CHARLWOOD.
Mr. P. SAMMY.

The minutes of the meeting held on the 25th August, 1941, which have been circulated, are confirmed.

Mr. R. Williamson took the Oaths and assumed his seat as a Nominated Unofficial Member of the Council.

The Governor:—Honourable Members, before we proceed with the business of the day, I should like to say a few words in memory of Sir Ong Siang Song who died on the 29th of September last.

Our friend—you would wish me to speak of him as such—was one of those men who from their early years show the courage and the capacity to lead. In 1886, and again in 1887, he was first in the examination for the Higher Scholarships, now called Queen’s Scholarships; but he was still under the qualifying age of 16 years, and so it was not until 1888 that having won the first place in the examination for the third successive year he went to England as a student in the Middle Temple. The scholarships which he won there enabled him to enter Cambridge University in 1890 where he took his degree in 1893.

===== Page 8 =====
Returning to Singapore, he began his life of public service. He was at once elected President of the Chinese Christian Association and was active in the formation of institutions such as the Singapore Chinese Girls' School, the Straits Chinese British Association, and the Chinese Company of the Straits Settlements Volunteers, which he joined as a private and which, with six others, he represented at the Coronation of King Edward VII. Subsequently, he rose to the rank of Captain. In the Great War of 1914-18, he was a great and valuable influence in pointing out the duty of the Straits Chinese to the British Empire. As a member of the Straits Chinese Consultative Committee, he was wise and helpful, as I know full well.

As a member of this Legislative Council, he served for various periods between 1919 and 1927, when his health, never very robust, compelled him to retire. He was appointed to be a Commander in the Order of the British Empire in 1927 and received the honour of Knighthood in the same Order in 1936. For nearly 50 years, he was the trusted friend and counsellor of this Government and of his community.

It is not only for what he did, but for what he was, that his memory will remain green. A leader, yet a servant of others, a patriot, a Christian gentleman, upright, charitable, and generous, he has set an example which we may all be proud to follow. In acknowledgment of the debt which the Government and the people of this Colony owe to him, and in sympathy with the members of his family, let us stand for a few moments in silence.

ADDRESS BY HIS EXCELLENCY THE GOVERNOR.

The Governor: Honourable Members of the Legislative Council,

I propose to follow the practice adopted in the last two years and to read only a portion of my Address.

The War is absorbing more and more of the energies of the world and is increasing daily in ferocity. Over the 2,000 mile front in Russia, multitudes are being slaughtered, and we watch with admiration the magnificent resistance with which the Russian forces are meeting the invader. They are receiving from us all possible help. We watch, too, with equal admiration the skill and determination with which China continues to fight for her freedom, and it is a happy chance that the notable victory of her armies at Changsha should coincide with the thirtieth anniversary of the inauguration of the Republic. This is all the more significant, coming as it does after more than four years of war, and shows that China is united today as never before in her history. Help is coming rapidly to her too.

Great Britain is spending more than £100 a second, and is prepared to spend more so that victory may be won. Our forces are at last becoming reasonably well equipped and the help which we are able to give to others is increasing with every month. We derive added confidence from the knowledge that the incalculable resources of the United States of America are being so freely and ungrudgingly placed at the disposal of our Allies and ourselves.

The days through which we are passing are critical, but the future is bright with hope. The battle of the Atlantic is being won and the food position at home is good. We need not fear, but we must not relax. In the following pages, I shall try to show a little of the war effort which Malaya is making, with special reference to the activities of the Colony.

FINANCE.

The financial year 1940 ended with a deficit of $10.2 million, created entirely by gifts of £1 million sterling to the Imperial Government and £10,000 to the Lord Mayor's Air Raid Relief Fund, and by expenditure of $533,000 on the embodiment and training of the Straits Settlements Volunteer Force and $481,000 on cost-of-living allowances. Several other considerable items of expenditure for which no provision was made in the Estimates were met from savings.

===== Page 9 =====
The approved estimates for 1941 showed an anticipated deficit of $13.3 million, but the revised deficit is only $1.78 million in spite of heavy and unforeseen expenditure on Passive Defence and other War Services. This improved position is mainly due to the adoption of the war tax on incomes and to additional war duties, but considerable savings have been effected in many heads of the Estimates.

Our balances on the 1st of January, 1942, are estimated to be $70.85 million as against $72.6 million a year ago. In addition, we have $58 million in the Opium Revenue Replacement Fund. The revenue for 1942 is estimated at $59.7 million and the expenditure at $58.2 million, so that we shall be budgeting for a small surplus even after certain necessary revotes have been included. All items which are unessential in war time have been excluded from the schedules of special expenditure, subject always to the policy of the Government which is to provide for its social services such as public health and education as much as can be effectively spent by a staff whose energies are for the most part engaged on war work. Our thanks are due to all those officers who during the past two difficult years have maintained the finances of the Colony on a sound basis.

The war tax on incomes is being collected smoothly and without friction. Several thousand assessments have been completed but the number of appeals to the Board of Commissioners has been only about half a dozen. The total revenue collected up to the 30th of September is just over $4.5 million and is well up to the estimate. The expenditure of the Department is well within the original estimate of 2 percent of the total revenue to be collected.

Sales of war savings certificates for the first six months of the year were $2.3 million.

The increase in estate duty has up to date produced some $750,000. This is, of course, an addition to the normal revenue from this form of taxation which is already $1.5 million against an estimate of just over $1.00 million for the whole year.

The Colony has given or undertaken to give a sum amounting to $71,252,700 by way of direct gifts and gifts of money raised by loans, war savings certificates and special taxation. To this must be added the considerable sums collected by private organizations and remitted home for various war purposes.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE CONTROL.

In the first year of the war the nett sales of the Malayan Control to the Bank of England were U.S. $97.86 million. In the eleven months of the second year, i.e., up to the end of July 1941, our contribution in American dollars was just over $135 million. These figures are exclusive of the large quantities of U.S. dollars surrendered to the Bank of England directly by American banks to maintain their credits in registered sterling accounts which are used to finance, through London, Malayan shipments to America. During the first seven months of 1941 the imports into the United States from Malaya were valued at U.S. $201 million as against $146 million during the same period of 1940. Exports from America to Malaya during these periods were valued at U.S. $25.8 million in 1941 and U.S. $8.8 million in 1940. Malaya sells more to the United States than any other country in the world except Canada.

This, in a few words, represents a principal part of Malaya's contribution to the Empire's war offensive. It has not been made painlessly. Many have had to sacrifice their desires in order that Malaya should conserve her American dollars for Britain's war purchases, but we may rest assured that we have not suffered more than other countries of the Empire. The rules for the conservation of American exchange are Empire-wide in their application.

During the year the Malayan Control has received the most effective and generous assistance from the Control in the Netherlands East Indies. The two Controls have the same objects in view, and by a happy co-operation they have been able to ensure the substantial success of their efforts. I am glad also to

===== Page 10 =====
Record that a most cordial relationship has been established with American interests who appreciate that we only want their dollars in order to give them back and that freedom to us means just what it does to them.

AGRICULTURE.

In Penang and Province Wellesley the weather was against the padi crop, but the Malacca harvest is expected to be good, and the total will be about the same as last year. The Agricultural Department is now experimenting in the cultivation of vegetables on padi land in the off season, and the prospects are promising as it has been shown that from land so used a heavier crop of padi can be obtained.

The acreage under fresh vegetables and rice substitutes is steadily increasing, and the Department is calling for returns which will enable it to advise where crops such as tapioca may be planted on a considerable scale should the need arise. The Malay schools are giving great help. In Malacca, 13 additional acres have been planted up and every available part of the school's compounds is being utilised.

The local manufacture of cigarettes and cheroots from Malayan leaf is thriving and several factories have been established. I regard the tobacco industry as valuable as giving a livelihood to a number of small holders and as meeting a very real need.

The rubber produced in the Colony during the first six months of the year is estimated at 287,000 tons as compared with 260,500 last year. 37 percent of this came from small holdings.

The Department is to be warmly congratulated on the production of the book "Vegetable Gardening in Malaya" which I am informed is having a ready sale.

LIVE STOCK.

The scheme for establishing a fresh meat reserve by the importation of Bali cattle is going well, and several thousand head are already in Malaya. Speaking generally, the climate and the grazing seems to suit them, but steps have already been taken to improve the grazing by ploughing up the land and planting selected grasses.

EDUCATION.

The war has naturally overshadowed the activities of the schools, but notable contributions to the war effort have been made by the trade schools in training mechanics and motor drivers, by all schools in cultivating vegetable gardens, in helping with salvage campaigns, giving to war funds by foregoing sports prizes, and in providing Air Raid Precaution and Medical Auxiliary Service depots and posts. Most members of school staffs are volunteers or members of one of the Passive Defence Services.

The Trade Schools, while continuing the three year courses in mechanical engineering, electrical and domestic engineering, also provided radio servicing courses for mechanics for the Royal Air Force and courses for driver mechanics for the Malay Regiment, Indian Army and the Straits Settlements Volunteer Force.

The enrolment in Government and aided English schools is 27,202; in private English schools 10,114; and there are 1,252 pupils in Singapore Government afternoon schools.

There are 174 Malay boys' schools and 51 Malay girls' schools with 28,061 pupils as compared with 27,941 in 1940.

The Malay Women's Training College at Malacca now in its sixth year continues to be an ever increasing force in the girls' schools. The war has prevented developments, but domestic science has made progress both in the College and in the Malacca Malay girls' schools.

I have already stated the determination of the Government not to allow the war to retard educational progress.

===== Page 11 =====
CO-OPERATION.

The war has affected the different types of co-operative societies in different ways.

The urban societies amongst salary earners were chiefly affected by the rising cost of living which made saving less easy and drove some members to withdraw in order to recover their savings.

The rural societies fared best, particularly the societies in Malacca which benefited from the high price of rubber.

Societies amongst Indian labourers show a slower rate of progress owing mainly to the mobility of labour. There was a fall in membership of 400 chiefly in Singapore where there was a large withdrawal of savings, but conditions in Penang and Malacca were more stable and the savings continued to increase. Events in Europe in the first half of 1940 caused some uneasiness and many enquiries were made as to the safety of savings, but confidence has now been restored. Loans increased and advances to purchase cattle and goats were freely given. While the membership fell slightly, the average gross saving per member increased from $42.5 to $48.3.

Officers of the Department when visiting societies take the opportunity of explaining the contents of the latest news bulletins and distributing copies to some of those who can read. In this way confidence is maintained and false rumours checked.

The number of Societies is 144 and the paid up capital is $2.86 million, of which $2.58 million is invested. The number of members is 26,700.

FOOD CONTROL.

The work of the Food Control Department has grown in size and importance with the development of the war. I am glad to be able to repeat the assurance given last year that the stocks of various essential foods, whether held by Government or privately, are being maintained at a satisfactory level. Air conditioned and refrigerated storage has been built for reserves of perishable foodstuffs.

From the beginning of the year the Food Controller became the sole importer of rice in order that ample supplies should be ensured for immediate consumption and as a war reserve. He has received the close co-operation of merchants and I thank them warmly for their help.

The prices of the following commodities are controlled: rice, bran, sugar, milk including infant and invalid foods, white flour, atta flour, meat, salt, bread, groceries and canned goods, cocoa, market produce, vegetables and poultry, firewood and charcoal, gunny bags. The prices of market produce are fixed by the local area supply officers, but all other maximum controlled prices are fixed by the Food Controller, Malaya, on the advice of expert Committees. Every effort is made to check profiteering, and recently Committees have been set up in each Settlement and State to study the question locally and to advise on the steps that can be taken to deal with it; but the public is very slow to co-operate.

The changes in the controlled prices of a few staple commodities between September 1939 and the end of May 1941 are:

- Sugar per kati (1 1/3 lbs.): 7 to 7½
- White wheat flour: 6 to 8¼
- Empire Condensed milk per tin: 31 to 32
- U.S.A. Condensed milk per tin: 22 to 27½

The Rice Import Monopoly endeavours to work on average cost prices in determining its selling at the controlled prices. This at times has enabled rice to be sold in Malaya below replacement cost and has evened out the curve of

===== Page 12 =====
Rising prices. The prices of those qualities which are chiefly in demand, at the end of September 1941 as compared with those at the outbreak of war, were:

| Quality                         | 30th Sept. 1939 cents per gantang (8 lbs.) | 30th Sept. 1941 cents per gantang (8 lbs.) |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------ |
| Thailand No. 2 Ordinary          | 30                                         | 55½                                        |
| S. Q. Meedone (Burma White)      | 29                                         | 42                                         |
| Milchar No. 1 (Burma parboiled)  | 29                                         | 39                                         |

The increased price of Thai rice is due to the high cost of purchase and it has brought about a reduction in the demand; Burma rice is now replacing it to an appreciable extent. It is possible that the price of Thai rice may fall when the new crop comes on the market, but in any event the retail price here is much less than would have been possible without control.

LABOUR.

The year has been singularly free from labour trouble amongst the Chinese, there being in Singapore almost a complete absence of strikes and in Penang no undue number. This is partly due to the fact that improved prosperity has enabled employers to grant increases of wages when asked, but also to a welcome change of view amongst artisans and labourers, especially those engaged directly or indirectly in defence services, who have felt that strikes would be wrong in the conditions that have obtained inasmuch as they would have been likely to impede the war effort not only of this Colony but of China as well. I am glad to be able to pay tribute to this attitude, and to the readiness of labourers to work long hours on defence work. They are making a real contribution to the fight for freedom.

I have already mentioned the control of food prices. Inevitably however there has been some increase in the cost of living, and all public authorities have continued to pay a high cost of living allowance, based on ascertained changes in the prices of foodstuffs, to all artisans and labourers. A number of private employers have done the same. In addition it has been agreed to pay a supplementary allowance which will vary according to the ascertained changes in the cost of certain essential commodities other than foodstuffs.

The Trade Union Ordinance and the Industrial Courts Ordinance were brought into force on July 1st. The public must not think that this provides a panacea for all labour trouble or that rapid results are to be expected from it. Labour in the East has been gradually following Western models but difficulties will inevitably occur in the process of adapting itself to trade union methods. The legislation provides a framework on which much has to be built, and for this the co-operation and goodwill of employer and employee alike is necessary. But I am sure that these will be forthcoming and that in time Malaya will develop good leaders from among its labouring classes who will do for them what trade union officials have done for the British working man. All must remember, however, that the final agreement in any labour dispute must be based on a compromise between the parties; it is to achieve this that the Departments concerned work by methods of conciliation and mediation.

There has been ample employment for Indian labour owing to the high demand for rubber, to replanting on estates, and to increased demands by Service Departments. It is satisfactory that local sources of supply have not only made good the normal wastage in labour but have actually increased the amount available.

It is proposed to give assistance to employers who wish to recruit labour from the Netherlands East Indies by extending, by law, the scope of the Immigration Fund.

A very interesting and constructive proposal has been made that district or estate welfare committees composed of senior and subordinate members of estate staffs and their wives should be formed with the object of giving practical [POSSIBLY MISSING]


===== Page 13 =====
Instruction to labourers and their dependants in matters of nutrition, hygiene, and better living generally. Such committees would certainly be of considerable value to the community.

PUBLIC HEALTH.

The public health of the Colony has remained good. There have been no outbreaks of epidemic disease, and the incidence of malaria has been much less than during the past three years.

Preparations for dealing with civilian casualties, if war should come to Malaya, are well advanced. Materials are now in position to provide for an expansion of the hospitals; first aid posts have been established and equipped, transport units organised, and a large and keen voluntary staff has been enrolled and is steadily improving in efficiency.

The Medical Auxiliary Service in the Colony now numbers nearly 3,000 men and women.

The blood transfusion unit of the Medical Auxiliary Service has on its lists the names of over three thousand voluntary donors, civilians who have offered to give their blood when required. Meanwhile, this unit has in cooperation with the Fighting Services taken over the work of grouping all members of the forces, and of building up a blood plasma "bank" which will be available for Service members and civilians. This is a most valuable unit and it deserves the highest praise.

CENSORSHIP.

During the two years of war the Censorship has assumed many new responsibilities and has had to develop in some unexpected directions. It is generally recognised that this Department (which should perhaps more properly be described as the Malayan Branch of the Imperial Censorship) is one of the most important links in the Empire Censorship chain.

The Postal Censorship in Singapore handles over 25,000 letters a day and the Telegraph Censorship over 98,000 telegrams a month. The telegraph traffic has increased by more than 50% since the beginning of the war owing to the dislocation and delay to which postal communications are now generally subject as a result of war conditions. Special attention continues to be paid to the need for passing trade and business communications with the minimum of avoidable delay and it costs money to do this.

The whole organization has to be kept fluid to meet political and war developments in all parts of the world. It has to be ready at all times to meet any situation and any calls made upon it. In spite of increased responsibilities, however, the staff figures have remained fairly constant and are at the moment below the "peak" figures which were reached in the early summer of 1940. That this is so is primarily due to the care with which expenditure is scrutinized and to the fact that, as the Department has been able to settle down, it has been possible to dispense with the services of some of the officers who were necessary in the early days. The actual staff position at the moment is as follows:

Total number of Europeans employed in Singapore and Penang:—

Men ....................................... 37

Women .................................... 129

Total local-born staff employed in Singapore and Penang: 138

Of this total of 304, just over 10% are employed on a part-time basis.

===== Page 14 =====
PUBLICITY.

During the year, the machinery for war publicity in Malaya has been greatly enlarged and developed, and the Department of Information and Publicity today needs fear comparison with no other organisation of the kind in the British Colonial Empire. The Department regularly produces news bulletins and commentaries in eight languages or scripts, namely English, Malay, Chinese, Tamil, Malayalam, Gurmukhi, Urdu, and romanized Urdu. Every penghulu throughout the Peninsula receives a daily bulletin printed in Jawi, thus enabling him to be the local source of authentic news and to combat the circulation of wild rumours.

The schools are not forgotten. For the first time in the history of Malaya, special "Children's Newspapers" are issued fortnightly in English, Malay, Chinese, and Tamil. Most of this work is done with the cooperation of the Education Department.

The total circulation of all publications of the Department is now about 160,000 copies a month. Apart from daily, weekly, fortnightly, and monthly publications, there has been a great increase in the local production of pamphlets and posters. Altogether, the Department is now sending out about two and a half million pieces of printed matter a year, including material received from London, Cairo, Delhi, Bombay, Hong Kong, and other centres. Three mobile vans stocked with reading and pictorial matter, and equipped with cinema apparatus, are visiting villages, mines, and estates, and the "Fight for Freedom" Exhibition is also touring the Peninsula.

The main functions of the Department are to disseminate reliable news, to assist in maintaining a healthy and well-informed public opinion, and to further all forms of the Malayan war effort by means of the technique of modern publicity. This organization is entirely novel in Malaya as a part of the machinery of government, and experience is being gained which may be very valuable when we return to the problem of peace-time colonial policy and administration.

Ever since I have been in Malaya there has been a public demand for an up-to-date broadcasting station. This demand was partially met, as time went on, by the British Malaya Broadcasting Corporation (created to serve Singapore and southern Johore) and by the stations at Penang and Kuala Lumpur. Just before war broke out, His Majesty's Government decided to set up an Imperial broadcasting station in Malaya which would be able to serve not merely the Far East but even more distant countries. The opportunity was then taken to combine the needs of Great Britain with those of Malaya, and the cost, both capital and recurrent, is being met by His Majesty's Government and Malaya in proportion to their respective requirements. There is to be an 18-hour service of programmes which will be sent out by four transmitters in twenty-two languages.

I have seen certain criticisms of the cost of the scheme, but in my opinion they are not well-founded. It is obvious that a station such as this must be in a position to give a first-class performance, and all recommendations for staffing it have been carefully examined by the British Broadcasting Corporation and the Ministry of Information in London. It may be added that but for the accidents of war the station would now be open.

The policy of the Malaya Broadcasting Corporation, as it is called, is supervised by a Board of Governors on which the Ministry of Information is represented. In due time it is proposed to set up Committees to deal with local programmes.

PUBLIC WORKS.

The general effect of the war has been to reduce the supplies of essential materials while increasing costs. The civil programme of the Department was drastically cut down so that all available resources in staff, plant, and material

===== Page 15 =====
Might be utilised on urgent measures of defence, and the number of works which have had to be carried out simultaneously has taxed very highly the capacity of the Department, of contracting firms, and indeed of the labour resources of the country as a whole.

The programme of defence works undertaken by the Department in the Colony is estimated to cost some $3 million. Much of it is of course on behalf of the Fighting Services with funds provided by the Imperial Government.

The Directorate of Engineering Stores is administered by the Director of Public Works and covers the whole of Malaya. It controls the storage, movement, and use of all the principal articles of engineering stores. To give a few instances, this includes some 82,000 tons of semi-manufactured iron and steel, 260,000 tons of cement and 10,000 tons of pig iron annually. The Directorate advises also on the importation of all engineering and building stores in Class III of the Malayan Import and Export List: this comprises goods catalogued under about 120 headings. Imported goods are controlled as to ports of entry and eventual distribution and selling price.

An inter-Services Works Priority Committee, presided over by the Director of Public Works, is charged with determining the relative priority of constructional works for the Admiralty, the War Department, the Air Ministry, and all civil authorities, on a Malayan basis. This involves the consideration of the distribution of available resources in staff, labour, plant, and material.

R.N.V.R.

The Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve now numbering 720 continues to carry out its duties with admirable efficiency. The hours are long and the work is arduous and responsible, but a spirit of high resolve animates all ranks, and the unit is one of which Malaya may well be proud.

The training of the Straits Settlements Volunteer Corps now consists of two months continuous training and 120 hours non-continuous training, the former being carried out in camp. The periods of embodiment have proved invaluable in training administrative personnel in their duties as well as all ranks in operating as groups in their special war roles. Continuity of training has in this way been assured and the improvement in the physical fitness of the Volunteers has been notable.

An excellent spirit has been shown by all ranks and the thanks of the Colony are due to them for their fine response to the stern needs of the times. Their release for training has made its call, too, upon their employers who, by their ungrudging co-operation and readiness to share additional burdens, have made their own commendable contribution to the war effort.

VOLUNTEER AIR FORCE.

The activities of this Force are twofold. By means of the Government Flying Training School, cadets of the Malayan Volunteer Air Force are trained as pilots for transfer to the Royal Air Force overseas; and, on the other hand, a Force of five flights is made available for assistance in Malayan defence.

During the first year, 55 pilots and 6 aircrew passed through the Flying Training School and proceeded overseas. A number are already in action and the casualties to date are four killed and one wounded. Thanks to the free services of civilian instructors and to the absence of any overhead expenses, the cost of this School has been about a quarter of the normal cost, while the high standard of training has been proved by the very remarkable successes in their examinations overseas achieved by the graduates from the School.

The Malayan Volunteer Air Force for Malayan defence has a present strength of 23 officers and 136 other ranks. Six "continuous training" camps have been held in Singapore, as a result of which 54 pilots have qualified for the Volunteer Air Force "Wings" badge. All flights are continually engaged

===== Page 16 =====
In a variety of work such as communication flights and day and night co-operation with the Services and A.R.P. units, two pilots have been killed and one injured. The discipline, training, and morale of the Force is of a very high order, and great credit is due to the Flying Club Committees and others for their enthusiastic help in creating, equipping, training, and operating it.

The Passive Defence Services, comprising the Corps of Air Raid Wardens, the Medical Auxiliary Service, and the Auxiliary Fire Service are distributed as follows:

- Air Raid Wardens: 4,300
- Medical Auxiliary Service: 2,315
- Auxiliary Fire Service: 504

The Local Defence Corps number 470 in Singapore, 209 in Penang, and 289 in Malacca, and the Volunteer Police Reserve in Singapore grows steadily and now has a strength of 302.

There are other services connected with the defence of the Colony which are manned by civilians and Government Departments and big business houses had established fire-fighting units before compulsory fire-watching was introduced. All these organisations display an energy and keenness which are producing a steadily mounting efficiency, and the public spirit by which this result is being won is warmly appreciated.

SHIPBUILDING.

With the ready co-operation of all concerned, it has been possible to make a very important addition to the list of Malaya's war activities. On behalf of the Admiralty and others, vessels to the value of $10 million are to be constructed and the work is already well in hand. The vessels include anti-submarine craft, mine-sweepers, mooring vessels, tugs, and small boats. Twenty-two Marine Diesel 525 h.p. engines ("Detac") for the Admiralty are also being made locally, and three 1,000 h.p. steam engines complete with all auxiliaries for the Royal Indian Navy.

As an example of the drain on our manpower caused by the war, I record that in the Settlement of Malacca the Alor Gajah district is in charge of a Chinese and the Jasin district is in charge of a Eurasian, both of whom are members of the Straits Settlements Civil Service, while the Forestry Department in the Settlement is administered by a Malay.

The war effort of the Straits Settlements—and indeed of Malaya as a whole—gives cause for legitimate pride and should inspire us all to redoubled efforts in the future. Much remains to be done and, with the continued co-operation of all classes, much will be done.

Honourable Members, I pray that your deliberations may be to the lasting benefit of this Colony. (Applause).

The Colonial Secretary:—Sir, I have to lay on the table Council Papers Nos. 43 to 54 of 1941:

1941—
No. 43. Report of proceedings of the Finance Committee on Message No. 10 of 1941.
No. 44. Report of proceedings of the Finance Committee on Message No. 11 of 1941.
No. 45. The Fees Ordinance and The Companies Ordinance, 1940—Table of Fees to be paid to the Registrar under—
No. 46. Report of proceedings of the Finance Committee on Message No. 12 of 1941.
No. 47. The Traffic Regulation Ordinance—Traffic (Amendment No. 4) Regulations, 1941 under—
No. 48. The Fees Ordinance—Amendment to Table of Fees for Administration of Estates under—

===== Page 17 =====
No. 49. The Public Trustee Ordinance—Amendment to Public Trustee (Fees) Rules, 1938 under—
No. 50. Memorandum on the Draft 1942 Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure.
No. 51. The Merchant Shipping Ordinance—Singapore Port (Amendment) (No. 2) Rules, 1941 under—
No. 52. Report of proceedings of the Finance Committee on Message No. 26 of 1940.
No. 53. The Trade Unions Ordinance, 1940—Trade Unions Regulations, 1941 under—
No. 54. The Food Control Ordinance, 1939—Orders made by the Food Controller under—

MOTION BY THE COLONIAL SECRETARY.

The Colonial Secretary:—Sir, I move that this Council adopts the Reports of the Finance Committee on Messages Nos. 10, 11, 12 of 1941 and 26 of 1940 laid on the table of the Council on the 13th of October, 1941, as Council Papers Nos. 43, 44, 46, and 52 of 1941.

The Acting Financial Secretary:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The motion is agreed to.

MOTION BY THE ATTORNEY-GENERAL.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I move that this Council approves the Traffic (Amendment No. 3) Regulations, 1941, made by the Governor in Council in exercise of powers conferred by section 3 of the Traffic Regulation Ordinance and contained in Council Paper No. 41 of 1941, laid before this Council on the 25th of August, 1941.

These amendments extend by one half-hour the parking facilities in the streets which are set out in the Regulations.

Mr. A. H. Dickinson:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The motion is agreed to.

MOTION BY THE ATTORNEY-GENERAL.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I move that this Council approves the amendment to the Public Trustee (Fees) Rules, 1938, made by the Governor in Council under sections 18 (1) and 22 of the Public Trustee Ordinance, published as Notification No. S 593 in the Gazette Subsidiary Legislation Supplement of the 19th September, 1941, and laid on the table of Council on the 13th October, 1941, as Council Paper No. 49 of 1941.

This amendment of the Rules prescribes a minimum fee of $1 for withdrawals of capital from trust accounts. It is merely to cover the cost of withdrawals which if worked out according to the scale prescribed by the Rules might amount to a matter of a few cents. The Public Trustee has power to waive fees, so there is no danger of any hardship in the case of small estates.

Sir, I move the motion standing in my name, No. 3 in the Orders of the Day.

The Acting Financial Secretary:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The motion is agreed to.

MOTION BY THE ATTORNEY-GENERAL.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I move that this Council approves the Singapore Port (Amendment) (No. 2) Rules, 1941, made by the Governor in Council under section 406 of the Merchant Shipping Ordinance, published as Notification No. S 597 in the Gazette Subsidiary Legislation Supplement of the 22nd September, 1941, and laid on the table of Council on the 13th October, 1941, as Council Paper No. 51 of 1941.

===== Page 18 =====
These amendments to the Rules provide for the control of the embarkation as well as the landing of passengers of launches, boats, and small craft at the prescribed landing places such as Clifford Pier and Beach Road, Hylam Kongsi, and so on.

Sir, I move the motion standing in my name, No. 4 in the Orders of the Day.

The Director of Public Works:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The motion is agreed to.

MOTION BY THE ACTING FINANCIAL SECRETARY.

The Acting Financial Secretary:—Sir, I move that this Council approves the Draft Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure for the year 1942.

It is usual in presenting the Budget to compare the revenue and expenditure with that of previous years. In the Budget we are considering for 1942, the total revenue and expenditure cannot be compared with pre-war figures without taking into account the large increases due to War Revenue and War Expenditure. A summary has therefore been printed on the front page of the Estimates to show War Revenue and War Expenditure separately from the rest.

In this way, it is possible to see what sums are being raised by war taxes and spent on the prosecution of the war, and also what is the estimated yield of pre-war taxes and the level of normal expenditure classified in the same way as before the war.

It is not possible to draw a clear line in all cases between war expenditure and normal expenditure, but expenditure under the pre-war heads has been classified as normal expenditure, and only expenditure on the new departments and services undertaken as a direct result of the war are classified as war expenditure.

War revenue includes revenue raised by statute for the purpose of making gifts to the Imperial Government, revenue raised by taxes such as the War Tax on incomes declared by law to be for the purpose of contributing towards the expenses incurred in the prosecution of the war, and also revenue raised from taxes such as additional war duties where there is no statutory undertaking.

War revenue from taxes imposed since the outbreak of war and on the same scale of taxation as for 1941 is estimated to yield slightly over $19 millions, or over $8 millions in excess of war expenditure. It includes $10 millions from War Tax estimated at the same rates as in the present War Tax Ordinance, 1941.

It may or may not be a surprise to Honourable Members or to the public which is eager to play its part in winning the war when I tell them that at a later session of Council this year a Bill will be introduced with increased rates of War Tax affording taxpayers an opportunity of sharing in greater measure some of the sacrifices which are being made by the people in the United Kingdom and other parts of the Empire. It is not part of my duty today to anticipate what these rates will be, but it is felt that the statement I have just made will alleviate the anxieties of those who wish to increase the yield of War Tax included in the draft Estimates before this Council.

Of the $81 millions excess of War Revenue over War Expenditure, just over $6 millions will be remitted to the Imperial Government in accordance with previous statutory undertakings, and the remainder will be used to meet local war expenditure as agreed to by the Right Honourable the Secretary of State for the Colonies.

Although the foreseen war expenditure to be met by the Colony in 1942 has been estimated as closely as possible at nearly $11 millions, it must be realised that if actual warfare came to these shores, there might be circumstances in which the calls upon the Colony’s finances would be enormous.

An account is being kept of war revenue and war expenditure so that when the outlook is clear, the balance of the revenue raised and earmarked to meet war expenditure will be remitted to the Secretary of State as a gift to His Majesty’s Government.

===== Page 19 =====
The estimated yield from the sales of War Savings Certificates is shown as only $1 million, that is, the remainder of the $10 million authorized by the existing War Savings Certificates Ordinance. Since these Estimates have been printed, it has been decided to move a Bill in Council approving the issue of a further $10 million from the sale of War Savings Certificates so that the sale of War Savings Certificates will continue without interruption. Judging by the present sales, the yield for 1942 is more likely to be $6 million than the $1 million entered in the Estimates.

There is a contra item in the War Expenditure Estimates of the contribution to the Imperial Government of the proceeds of the sale of these War Savings Certificates, and the difference of $3 million between the $4 million entered in the 1941 Estimates and the $1 million entered in the 1942 Estimates explains why the total estimated war expenditure for 1942 is about $1.7 million less than that for 1941. But for this method of accounting, the war expenditure for 1942 would be about $1.3 million in excess of the 1941 total.

Expenditure on the War Control departments has increased as the controls have tightened and staffs have had to be enlarged. These departments are usually working at high pressure. This is inevitable under war conditions when the fullest use has to be made of manpower, and no close estimate can be made of the increasing volume of work. I pay tribute to the way these staffs are working under adverse conditions.

Amongst the new items of war expenditure are provision of $80,000 for Civil Liabilities, R.N.V.R. and V.A.F., and a token vote of $10,000 for the Medical Auxiliary Service.

After deducting war expenditure from total expenditure, there remains a sum of $47.3 million which represents the estimated cost of the normal Government Services, and which is $6.7 million in excess of the revenue, $40.6 million from normal sources. This should be compared with the 1939 approved estimated expenditure of $45.2 million compiled before the Munich crisis in 1938. The two sets of figures are not much out of step.

There have been certain increases in expenditure due to Cost of Living Allowances, increased prices and cost of services due to war conditions, but Honourable Members can be assured that there has been no relaxation of financial control on normal expenditure because of the war. At the beginning of the year, Heads of Departments were informed in preparing the Estimates for 1942 that consideration of new schemes, salary scales, and other reorganisations of personnel should be postponed until a more favourable opportunity presents itself, and that proposals for increases in recurrent expenditure or for special expenditure and Public Works Extraordinary should not be made except on proof that they were absolutely unavoidable as, for example, services connected with active or passive war measures, with communications or with essential social services. The result has been that few new appointments appear in the Estimates except in the Education, Immigration and Police Departments.

There is an increase of expenditure of $42,255 under Personal Emoluments, Immigration and Passport Department, for additional staff for two new launches, and for temporary staff required for enforcement of the Defence Regulations. This expenditure is recoverable from the Aliens Immigration Fund.

There has been considerable pruning of ordinary departmental expenditure. It will be remembered that there was a period just before the war when departments laid in considerable supplies in anticipation of the war. As a result of pruning in the interests of wartime economy, and because new equipment has not to be provided for new buildings, decreases in total expenditure are shown in most departments, and it is the decrease in avoidable special expenditure without curtailing essential present activities, which accounts for the decreases in the contributions to the Education, Hospitals and Rural Boards.

As stated previously, the line drawn between War Expenditure and Normal Expenditure has been somewhat arbitrary in certain cases. There are two large

===== Page 20 =====
Items of expenditure of importance which have appeared since the outbreak of war, and yet have been excluded from War Expenditure. A sum of $41 million has had to be provided for the service of the War Loans and War Savings Certificates issued since the beginning of the war, and it will be considered in Select Committee whether this charge should be met from War Revenue. It will be a reminder for many years of the disadvantages of financing the war by borrowing as an alternative to taxation. The war has got to be paid for as we fight it out of savings, either by taxation or by borrowing, and of the two methods, taxation leaves no post-war problems.

The second large item appears under Miscellaneous Services where there is the approximate estimated cost of the Malayan part of the expenditure on the Malaya Broadcasting Corporation comprising capital expenditure of $553,000 and running costs $665,000. The other part of the expenditure is to be met by the Imperial Government, but the apportionment of costs is still under consideration.

Expenditure continues to be incurred in laying in supplies of food, some of which are turnover schemes like the rice pool, and others are reserves to meet an emergency. The expenditure is being met by trading accounts, in which other administrations are sharing, and therefore the final expenditure is not known and does not appear in the Budget before the Council today.

Details in the Expenditure Estimates are given in the Memorandum on the Estimates, but mention should be made of $40,000 for Secretariat Telegrams as compared with approximately $6,500 before the war. This is a necessary increase due to present circumstances, and it is not a heavy price to pay for the essential link in our Empire communications.

The Public Works Department is likely to continue to be occupied in 1942 with urgent defence work. There is a shortage of building material whilst skilled labour is already fully employed. Tendered costs of buildings have risen steeply, so only continuation work at Geylang Reclamation and the most urgent items have been entered in the Public Works Extraordinary Budget, which does not include re-votes.

Important social services such as the Town Improvement Schemes for Singapore and Province Wellesley are being assisted by provision of $500,000 and a grant of $162,375 respectively. It is regretted that proposals for Government buildings have had to be postponed, but it is sound policy for Government to hold back its building programme from competing with the Defence Services, or with other essential work at a time when prices are high and employment near its maximum due to contractors, labour and other available factors of production being fully engaged.

A list of works deleted from the 1941 Estimates appears in Appendix A to the Memorandum. If circumstances alter during 1942 and the provision is voted, the suspended building programme can be started with the minimum delay.

Sir, I move the motion standing in my name, No. 5 in the Orders of the day. (Applause).

The Colonial Secretary:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.

Mr. F. D. Bisseker:—Sir, I have no intention of going into the Estimates in great detail as one realises how extremely difficult it is in these days to forecast expenditure and also to forecast revenue. One sympathises with those who are confronted with the task of presenting Estimates. There are one or two details, however, upon which I should just like to make brief comment. How gratified everybody will be to see that it is the intention to maintain fully the Educational and Medical Services.

On the question of broadcasting about which we have heard a considerable amount recently, I feel that it is inadvisable at this moment to go into this as the problem can be thoroughly thrashed out in Select Committee. I think it is better, consequently, that the matter be left over until after the committees have

===== Page 21 =====
But I should like to say, Sir, how greatly welcome Your Excellency's remarks will be, giving us some indication of the purposes and the arrangements under which the broadcasting organisation is going forward.

In general, I should like to remark upon the method and the principle of setting up the figures of revenue and expenditure for the coming year. In my view, the splitting does not go far enough. One realises that separate accounts are kept for ordinary expenditure and for special war expenditure, but in looking at the figures which are published on the front of the draft estimates, one cannot help but notice that ordinary expenditure is over $6½ millions in excess of ordinary revenue.

One notices, furthermore, and it is quite clearly set down, that the war revenue is considerably in excess of war expenditure. The actual figure is slightly in excess of $8 millions. It is also set down that the Colony's balance at the end of 1942 is likely to be slightly in excess of the Colony's balance at the end of 1941. Is the conclusion accurate, therefore, that this deficit in the ordinary account is met out of the excess in the war account? In actual fact one realises that in the long run that would be the case. It says so in the statement upon the financial position, but the point I want to make is that on no account whatsoever can excess of war revenue over excess of war expenditure be applied to any deficit in the ordinary account.

There seems to me to be, in studying these figures, a partial explanation. My Honourable Friend, the Acting Financial Secretary, has drawn attention to the servicing of the War Loans and of the Savings Certificates. There is in the Budget a figure of approximately $4 millions for that purpose. That figure of $4 millions is in the ordinary account. There appears to me to be perfect justification for making that charge against the Colony's war revenue, and if that argument can be accepted, part of the deficit in the ordinary account is eliminated and we are left with a deficit of only $2½ millions in the ordinary account.

Another point in this connection is the revenue from the additional war duties, which my Honourable Friend remarked are not yet distributable under any law. It is possible that it can be applied to the ordinary account, but I think that is extremely doubtful, Sir, and I think that the result of the deliberations on this particular point will be to credit that revenue to the war account. There is, therefore, a difference of $2½ millions between ordinary expenditure and ordinary revenue—a deficit. It seems to me that that deficit must be charged to the Colony's ordinary funds and that there should be kept consequently quite separate accounts, and quite separate statements should be set down covering the ordinary revenue and the ordinary expenditure, and covering the war revenue and the war expenditure so that we know at all times exactly how we stand in these two accounts. There may be confusion over the method of setting up the accounts at the moment, but there should be no possibility of lack of funds due to such setting up for carrying on the war. I hold, Sir, therefore, that there should be these separate accounts and I trust that arrangements can be made for the accounts to be set up in such a manner, and perhaps as exact examples of what I mean by splitting in this respect, I may refer to the Posts and Telegraphs Account. It shows on the revenue side an intake of a sum of money as the result of the sale of the Certificates, but there is no contra entry showing the disbursal of that money. That appears under Miscellaneous. There is, consequently, an inaccurate balance in the Posts and Telegraphs Account.

The other example which I should like to put forward, Sir, is under Public Works which includes expenditure on Civil Aviation. It occurs to me that it would be much more satisfactory if that could be entirely separate as far as the accounts are concerned, though one quite sees that it may be more convenient from the general working point of view to have these two accounts under one control. I am not suggesting that the control should be separate; I am merely suggesting that the accounts should be separate and that they should go before the public separately rather than in the one account. (Applause).

===== Page 22 =====
Mr. Tay Lian Teck:—Sir, I understand there is a shortage of hospital accommodation, particularly in the third class wards in the General and Tan Tock Seng Hospitals. This is due in a great measure to the appreciation by the public of the value of hospitals. Owing to the difficulty of obtaining building materials, the proposal by the Director of Medical Services to extend the accommodation at the General Hospital had to be postponed. I consider, however, that the provision of extra hospital accommodation should not be held over because of the war, and that temporary wooden buildings should be erected to take care of the additional hospital cases for the duration of the war. At the termination of the war, these temporary buildings could be put to other use. I think a vote of $30,000 to $40,000 should be ample to meet this proposal, and trust that Government would consider this proposal favourably.

Another point to which I should like to draw the attention of Government is in regard to the high prices charged for a large number of commodities other than foodstuffs. Whether there is justification for such high prices is a matter that should receive the attention of some controlling authority. I understand that in some cases this is due to the imposition of import restrictions and to the difficulty experienced by merchants in securing AP's, with the consequence that advantage is taken by those dealers who happen to have stocks to increase the prices of their goods. As examples, the price of matches has risen by about 500% compared with prewar price, whilst prices of piece goods of the lower grade variety have increased by anything from 50 to 150%. The public are grateful to Government for the efficient working of the Food Control Department and the control of food prices, and I venture to suggest that the time has now come for Government to appoint an Anti-Profiteering Committee with power to fix maximum prices for all commodities except those that are already under control by the Food Control Department and the Director of Engineering Stores.

Finally, I should like to state that a number of merchants have complained to me about the inconvenience caused to them by the delay in obtaining approval of AP's and other permits from the Controller of Restricted Imports Department and the Statistics Department. Enquiries made by me reveal that there is a shortage of responsible European officers in this Department and that the salary offered to prospective persons appears to be on the low side considering that anyone taken in today would be on a temporary basis and with the high cost of living prevailing the salary offered should be sufficient to attract the right type of person. By this I mean that the person selected should not only be efficient but also honest and courteous.

We are at the end of 1941 and it is during this latter part of the year that very large numbers of applications for AP's would have to be forwarded to these Departments. With war conditions it takes much longer time for orders to be executed by manufacturers and it is for this reason that I wish to stress that it is vital that these officers be engaged as soon as possible in order not to cause unnecessary inconvenience to the trade. This Colony thrives on its commerce but with restrictions imposed as a result of war conditions it is only right and proper that the Department entrusted with the control of restrictions on imports of various articles should be adequately staffed. (Applause).

Capt. N. M. Hashim:—Sir, Since this Council last met, Malaya has been honoured by the arrival of Mr. Alfred Duff Cooper.

The Governor:—We are speaking on the Estimates, you know.

Capt. N. M. Hashim:—Yes, Sir, I am coming to the Estimates. We realise that Mr. Duff Cooper's field of activity is not restricted to Malaya, but we are honoured that his headquarters are in this country and that this country lies within his sphere of activity. We are very grateful to the Imperial Government for sending him. This solicitude shown for our welfare is greatly appreciated. Ever increasing reinforcements in men and equipment are arriving here almost daily; we are being given leaders of ability to direct the military and political campaigns; Sir Robert Brooke-Popham coordinates the land, sea and air

===== Page 23 =====
Defences of Malaya and the surrounding countries of the Empire with the preparation in the lands of our Allies and friends adjacent to us. Now we have Mr. Duff Cooper in a parallel capacity to deal with the political side. But perhaps you will permit me to say, Sir, that what Malaya appreciates most of all is that the Imperial Government has extended your tenure of office in this country for the duration of the war. Malaya is most fortunate to have during the war someone like yourself, Sir, who knows the country and understands its needs.

The Governor:—I really must ask the Honourable Member to speak to the motion. I am afraid this has nothing whatever to do with the Estimates. You can bring all that up on the motion for the adjournment if you wish.

Capt. N. M. Hashim:—Yes, Sir. At this Budget Meeting the need for economy must naturally be stressed. It is not possible under present circumstances to do more than to ask for this to be done. The details of economy, the stoppage of leakages can only be effected within all Government Departments. I am sure that the need for this is recognised and that every effort to get all departments to co-operate in an economy campaign is being made. It would help this campaign a good deal if there is readiness on Government's part to consider outside suggestions, because the outsider or onlooker very often sees things from a different angle and may have some very useful suggestions. Recently there was correspondence in the Press regarding the apparently wasteful method of a certain service in the matter of motor transport. While there may be nothing in the criticisms, still I think they should be looked into, if only to refute the allegations, not necessarily publicly, but at least to satisfy our conscience. But that self-investigation, I think, will give direct indication for improvements.

Naturally during war time senior officers are replaced by junior officers where the necessity arises. That is an obvious opportunity for economy. But the desire for economy must not lead to inequality of treatment. For instance, if a junior M.C.S. officer acts for a senior two classes above him, he draws as an allowance the difference between his own salary and the initial salary of the class of the higher post. But when a S.S.C.S. officer acts for an M.C.S. officer it makes no difference to his salary at all. This is an anomaly that should be removed and put right. No one is to blame. The S.S.C.S. is only a new service and there are no provisions so far made for such acting allowance. It is only after the rectification of this defect that the allowance could be given. I urge for an early provision for this in the General Orders, etc.

There is another matter I should like to bring up. A number of European officers have to be engaged for various civil or temporary departments connected with war activities. Some of these officers are taken on at far too high a salary and some are really benefitting themselves by the war. It has come to my knowledge that one of these officers who was getting over $800 a month approached the Authorities for a special allowance for his holiday expenses with his family at Cameron Highlands. Such things must not be allowed or tolerated. I should like also to draw Government's attention to the fact that whenever there is an appointment that can well be filled by a local born it should be given to the local born, for obvious reasons. I might also point out that some of the European officers who never had office and administrative training previously are being guided by the local born staff and in some cases the whole concern is run by the staff in their names, at least for some time at the beginning.

I want to ask one question about education in connection with this Budget. Has any policy been prepared for post-war education and are any sums of money provided in the Estimates to prepare for this scheme, if any? I know that there are difficulties that cannot be entirely overcome in war time; but some assurance that post-war problems are being considered not in general but in detail would be welcome, and I should like to see some indication in the Estimates that Government has the need of the future in mind. There will be an upheaval in

===== Page 24 =====
Many directions when the war is over nobody can deny. With this knowledge, it would be fatal for the Government not to begin now to lay plans for what is to be done when this upheaval comes. I suggest that it is not too early to begin now. (Applause).

Mr. E. N. C. Woollerton:—Sir, at the last meeting of Council you pointed out that as far as War Taxation is concerned we had hardly begun to tackle this question, especially when we compare the taxation of the ordinary person in this country with the taxation in the British Isles and other parts of the Empire. In this, I entirely agree, and in present circumstances, I do not feel that the scale of War Taxation should stop at 8 per cent, but that it should be carried higher so that the larger individual incomes bear a burden more in relation to their capacity to pay.

Such a course has, I see, the recommendation of the committee of the Straits Settlements (Singapore) Association who appointed a sub-committee to consider the present War Tax Ordinance and have gone into the whole matter in considerable detail.

In examining the 1942 Budget which is now before us, I see that the estimated War revenue includes revenue from War tax on the same scale as during 1941. But, Sir, I hope we can do better than that and that in due course a scale of taxation more or less in line with that recommended by the committee of the Straits Settlements Association will be brought before this Council for approval.

In the past, I have been inclined to favour the introduction of a fully-fledged income tax Bill which would allow a full measure of relief for married men and for those who have dependants, as I do not believe that a tax on incomes can be really fair unless a full income tax ordinance is imposed.

However, I very much doubt whether time would permit of the introduction of such an ordinance for the year 1942, and I think there is little doubt that the Malayan public are opposed to the introduction of an income tax ordinance modelled on lines existent at home, as they feel that such a Bill would inevitably tend to become part of the permanent fiscal system of the Colony. In view of this, I feel that the character of the existing Ordinance should be preserved so that it is kept purely as a war tax, and I think there is little doubt that the cost of administering a full income tax would be far greater than that incurred on the existing Ordinance.

Sir, I feel that we have reached a critical stage when we should look very carefully into our financial policy for the future. This Colony has never been burdened with the financial problems that have beset countries less favoured, and although its present sound financial status has, without doubt, been partly due to the foresight and wisdom with which its finances have in the past been controlled, it is equally true to say that from a financial point of view the Colony has during past years been favoured with good fortune.

Formerly, the Colony has been able to balance its budget and set aside substantial reserves without resort to direct taxation and with a lower scale of duties than is enforced in practically every country in the world.

Our primary duty must be to ensure that expenditure is not curtailed to the detriment of the industries and welfare of the people of this Colony, and it is only right that the Colony should also make a fair contribution to the cost of its defences.

If these things can be done without resort to additional taxation, either direct or indirect, all very well; but, if unfortunately, in spite of a most careful control of expenditure, we cannot do so, what steps should be taken to avoid deficits in the budget occurring year by year and eating into the Colony's reserves? To my mind, in this country where conditions are unusual, the first step should be to increase the duties on luxuries to an extent where they are more in line with those ruling in other countries, and in view of the difficulties pertaining to direct taxation in Malaya, income tax as a peacetime measure should only be adopted as a last resort.

===== Page 25 =====
The Colonial estimates of revenue and expenditure of the Colony, excluding War revenue and expenditure, show a deficit for the year 1942 in the region of $6,700,000, and if the policy I have suggested were followed, we should in normal peace time wipe out this deficit by increased duties. Although in the present instance duties have been increased, this has been done with a different motive, namely, to make a contribution to the Imperial Government towards the cost of the War.

The War revenue from duties, taxes, licences and War Savings Certificates for the year 1942 is estimated to amount to some $19,000,000. It is true that in peace time it would probably be in the interests of the Colony to abolish some of these additional sources of revenue, but to my mind a sufficient number of them could be maintained to enable us to balance our budget, and I feel that the maintenance of the majority would be preferable to the introduction, in peace time, of income tax as a permanent fiscal system of the Colony.

At the last meeting of Council, Sir, you explained very clearly that the Secretary of State considers that it is our primary duty to make provision for Malayan defence, and that at this stage we should husband our financial resources and not remit home the funds collected from the War Tax Ordinance. It does, therefore, seem to be somewhat illogical that we should remit to the Imperial Government the whole of the receipts from War duties.

Would it not place our finances on a sounder basis if the Colony retained for its own use the War duties we are now remitting to the Imperial Government, thereby balancing its normal budget in the normal way and for the whole sum of money collected from the War Tax and from the sale of War Savings Certificates, to be earmarked for remittance to the Imperial Government as the Colony's contribution towards the cost of the War provided that war does not come to Malaya, and we do not have to face incalculable liabilities locally in this respect?

I should like to see a clear cut division between revenue allocated to the Imperial Government, as the Colony's contribution to the War effort, and the revenue available to meet our own local needs. My suggestions, therefore, comprise the following:

Firstly.—That revenue from the War Tax and from the sale of War Savings Certificates should be allocated to the Imperial Government and that the balance left over after settling our own War commitments, should be earmarked for eventual remittance home as a contribution from the Colony towards the cost of the War. This would definitely preclude the possibility of this money being made available to us as part of our revenue for peace time needs.

Secondly.—That the Colony's contribution towards the cost of the War should be increased by raising the scale of War Tax on incomes above the 8 per cent. maximum which is now in force, and

Thirdly.—That at any rate some of the War duties which are now remitted home should be retained for the Colony's internal revenue so that its budget, excluding War revenue and expenditure, can be properly balanced.

This, Sir, I submit, would simplify the reversion to normal allocation of taxation when hostilities cease and at the same time give us a clear picture of our exact financial position. (Applause).

Mr. E. C. H. Charlwood:—Sir, I should like, if it is permissible, to offer a word of congratulation to the Acting Financial Secretary for the very lucid way he has presented this, his first Colonial Budget.

His promise of further direct taxation for 1942 will, I think, be a matter of satisfaction to most.

The Honourable the Senior Unofficial Member has suggested that War expenditure and revenue should be shown under special headings. This, I think, would be a convenience to all concerned, now and in the future, and I would like to support the suggestion. (Applause).

===== Page 26 =====
Mr. P. Sammy:—Sir, I should like to add a few words on the subject of increased hospital accommodation at the Tan Tock Seng Hospital, referred to by the Honourable the Chinese Member.

This hospital is the only place, I believe, where the poorer classes can go for treatment and nursing. The incidence of Tuberculosis in the Colony is not decreasing but increasing, and I believe that if temporary accommodation is provided for these cases, they will have proper treatment rather than go to places where the treatment may not be sufficiently effective. They are also, in a way, a public danger for it is well known, especially in Singapore, that patients suffering from Tuberculosis remain in the same house and in very limited accommodation with members of the family, and I think it is well known that this is a common source of infection. (Applause).

The Director of Medical Services:—Sir, In reply to the remarks of my friend the Honourable Mr. Tay Lian Teck, it is a fact that there is now some shortage of accommodation in the Second and Third Class Wards in the General Hospital. This is due partly to an increased demand for accommodation in the hospital, partly to the transfer of certain surgical patients from the Tan Tock Seng Hospital, and also to the fact that we are reserving one ward which is kept permanently vacant for the reception of cases who may have to be taken into hospital as a result of circumstances arising from the War. The ward reserved for this purpose normally has only 27 beds.

The policy has also been followed of not trying to meet the demand for more beds by increasing the number of patients in each ward. A moderate amount of overcrowding can be allowed without serious inconvenience, but this would mean an encroachment on the space which is being kept apart for possible war casualties.

The building of a temporary ward at the General Hospital will be recommended, and also experiments to utilize the existing ward space to greater advantage. Schemes for the expansion of the General Hospital on an extensive scale were prepared over two years ago. This expansion is still very desirable but it will have to wait until materials and labour are available after the War.

In reply to the Honourable Mr. Sammy's remarks, there is at Tan Tock Seng Hospital at the present time adequate accommodation for all the ordinary patients who are applying for admission there, but I have to admit that the accommodation for the more advanced types of Tuberculosis is probably not adequate. Some of these patients have to be refused admission and although it is doubtful if admission to hospital would make any real difference to that particular patient, it is undoubtedly true that the presence of these advanced cases of pulmonary tuberculosis in the general population does constitute a problem which will have to be dealt with sooner or later. I cannot offer any recommendation for dealing with it at the present time. (Applause).

The Colonial Secretary:—Sir, it is not quite clear to me in what way anti-profiteering is relevant to the motion, but it comes more within my parish than that of the Financial Secretary and I will endeavour to deal with it.

The Honourable Member's request for action to deal with increasing prices seems to me to carry an implication that the problem would be simply solved by the fixing of prices—maximum prices. For one thing, such fixation will be a most difficult and complex matter. By virtue of the scarcity which causes the increase of prices, a maximum promptly becomes a minimum, and the boys in the back room get busy. The really active efforts which have been made by the Food Controller to stop profiteering show the difficulties in the way of such control and while I freely admit that here is a problem to be tackled, I feel that although the matter has already received considerable thought from Government, an easy way out is not to be found. The experience of other countries shows how difficult the problem is and I think this must be said: that any solution must involve more of that interference with trade regarding which there has been so much angry complaint.

===== Page 27 =====
The Honourable Member has spoken of the staffing of the Controller of Restricted Imports. So has the Controller. We have tried to meet his wishes but we approach these recommendations for new appointments with great hesitancy and in a spirit of some trepidation brought about by the performances of those critics, usually the most active and vocal, who appear to possess two voices but no memory and thus find themselves able at one time to demand expenditure on a project which has attracted their favour and at another, to denounce the Government for squandermania. I think probably that the Honourable Member may have to be thrown to these lions because it seems to me that his argument in one aspect suggested the grant of a cost of living allowance in respect of salaries which I am quite sure the Government has never yet taken into account. It seems to me that if you increase a salary by a certain amount because of the high cost of living, it must follow in logic that those people already employed, who are drawing a salary which Mr. Tay finds inadequate, must also derive the same benefit. I don't know whether that was the purpose of the Honourable Member.

The Honourable Captain Hashim introduced some extremely interesting information. It was most surprising and new and I hope the Honourable Member will forgive me if I am not prepared at the moment to deal with it. I should very much like to question him as to the provenance of his complaints so that the proper remedy can be selected and applied. (Applause).

The Acting Financial Secretary:—Sir, in reply to the Honourable the Senior Unofficial Member as to the allocation of War revenue and War expenditure, I have already said that an account is being kept of War revenue and War expenditure on a certain basis and that has been set forth on pages 4 and 5 of the Memorandum to the Estimates. War revenue includes revenue from War duties enforced under Ordinance No. 13 of 1940 for the purpose of providing a contribution to the Imperial War expenditure; the proceeds of sales of War Savings Certificates for the purpose of making a gift of the amounts raised to His Majesty's Government for the prosecution of the War; revenue from War taxation on incomes and from the additional export duty on rubber imposed for the purpose of contributing towards the expenses incurred in the prosecution of the War; and additional War duties where there is no statutory undertaking to contribute the revenue towards expenses incurred in the prosecution of the War. As I have already said, no hard and fast line has been drawn between what comprises War expenditure and what does not comprise War expenditure. There are certain items, including large items such as the servicing of the Loans raised for the War, which will be considered in Select Committee, but I can assure the Honourable Member that there is no intention of using War revenue as a final allocation to meet any deficit on ordinary revenue and ordinary expenditure. (Governor: Hear, hear).

It has been already laid down in certain Enactments as to the purposes for which revenue is raised and if one looks at page 5 of the list of War expenditure in the Memorandum to the Estimates, it is shown there that $5,062,820 is being provided as a contribution to the Imperial Government from War duties, and $1 million contribution to the Imperial Government from War Savings Certificates. There are other items of expenditure: take, for example the expenditure on page 24, item 11, of the Estimates "Cost of Telegrams", in which it can be argued that a certain part of the expenditure is due to the War. Expenditure of that nature so far has not been entered under War Expenditure. Once it has been decided on the form in which the account of War revenue and War expenditure is to be kept then that account will be maintained and, as I have said previously, when the outlook is clear, any revenue which is left over after defraying the cost of War expenditure will be remitted to His Majesty's Government.

As regards the classification of certain expenditure in the Estimates, for example the revenue and expenditure referred to in connection with the Posts and Telegraphs Department, it must be explained that the Estimates as drawn up serves two purposes. In the first place, they provide a means of classification and control of public expenditure and of explaining to the Legislative Council

===== Page 28 =====
The way in which the revenue for the year is to be spent also serves another purpose—that is, providing a means of classification for the departments charged with the administration of particular votes. It is therefore a matter of how these two purposes can best be served when any question of classification arises. In the example given by my Honourable Friend, the revenue from the sale of War Savings Certificates is collected by the Posts and Telegraphs Department and is rightly included under that head of revenue which deals with the revenue of the Posts and Telegraphs Department.

As regards the expenditure, it appears under "Miscellaneous" because the payment of the proceeds from the sale of War Savings Certificates is not made by the Posts and Telegraphs Department; it is a payment made by the Treasury to the Home Treasury through the Secretary of State for the Colonies. Thus, the classification follows the line of administrative and departmental convenience.

This also applies where Civil Aviation is entered in the head of expenditure dealing with Public Works. The head of the Public Works Department is also the Director of Civil Aviation. The work in peacetime—and it is largely peacetime expenditure—consists of maintaining civil aerodromes and certain capital expenditure connected with civil aviation. Again, the practice follows departmental convenience. After these Estimates have been approved by this Council and by the Secretary of State for the Colonies, they are then distributed to Heads of Departments and other officers and used daily as a reference work. It is necessary to consider the classification of Estimates both in their day-to-day aspect and from the viewpoint of pure costing.

In the case of the Posts and Telegraphs Department, my Honourable Friend the Senior Unofficial Member will remember that commercial accounts are kept by the department showing whether it pays its way as a commercial department, especially regarding telegraph and telephone services. I assure my Honourable Friend that the revenue from the sales of War Savings Certificates will not appear in these commercial accounts.

In reply to the Honourable Mr. Woollerton, a proposal to increase duties on luxuries must be considered in relation to the present regulations restricting imports and the quantity of luxuries entering the country. It is expected that the volume of luxuries will significantly decrease and the yield from such will not be large. Methods of taxation to be adopted in peacetime will likely be decided by the government of the day, but the proposal to increase the tax on luxuries will be considered alongside other taxation methods.

In reply to the Honourable Mr. Charlwood, it is proposed that when the question of War revenue and War expenditure and its classification have been finally dealt with in Select Committee, a statement will be included in the Estimates showing the agreed classification. (Applause).

Sir, I now move that the motion be adjourned until the next meeting of Council and that the Draft Estimates be referred to a Select Committee of Council in three parts—one part for Singapore and Labuan to consist of the Financial Secretary and all the Singapore Unofficial Members of Council; the second part for Penang to consist of the Resident Councillor, Penang, and all the Penang Unofficial Members of Council; and the third part for Malacca to consist of the Resident Councillor, Malacca, and the Malacca Unofficial Member of the Council.

Mr. F. D. Bisseker:—Sir, I rise to second the amendment.

The motion is agreed to.

===== Page 29 =====
TRADING WITH THE ENEMY (AMENDMENT) BILL.

The Attorney-General: Sir, I move that the Trading with the Enemy (Amendment) Bill be read a third time and passed.

The Colonial Secretary: Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The motion is agreed to, and the Bill is read a third time and passed.

KING EDWARD VII COLLEGE OF MEDICINE (AMENDMENT) BILL.

The Attorney-General: Sir, I beg to move that the King Edward VII College of Medicine (Amendment) Bill be read a first time.

These amendments are purely formal and affect the internal organisation and management of the Senate and Council of the College, and they appear sufficiently in the Objects and Reasons attached to the Bill.

I move that the Bill be read a first time.

The Director of Medical Services: Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The Bill is read a first time.

The Attorney-General: Sir, I beg to give notice that at the next meeting of Council I shall move the subsequent stages of the Bill.

TRADE MARKS (AMENDMENT) BILL.

The Attorney-General: Sir, this Bill and the Bill that follows it are necessary before this Colony can adhere to a Convention of 1934 with regard to industrial property in trade marks and patents. The importance of this is that until we pass this legislation and adhere to that Convention, it is impossible for this type of property possessed by people in the Colony to be protected in adjacent foreign countries.

I move that the Bill be read a first time.

Mr. L. A. Allen: Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The Bill is read a first time.

The Attorney-General: Sir, I beg to give notice that at the next meeting of Council I shall move the subsequent stages of the Bill.

REGISTRATION OF UNITED KINGDOM PATENTS (AMENDMENT) BILL.

The Attorney-General: Sir, what I have just said with regard to the amendment of the Trade Marks Ordinance applies equally to this Bill relating to United Kingdom Patents, and I move that the Registration of United Kingdom Patents (Amendment) Bill be read a first time.

Mr. L. A. Allen: Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The Bill is read a first time.

The Attorney-General: Sir, I beg to give notice that at the next meeting of Council I shall move the subsequent stages of the Bill.

COCOS ISLANDS BILL.

The Attorney-General: Sir, this Bill, which will repeal and, to some extent, re-enact the present Cocos Islands Ordinance, has become necessary so as to make some practical provision for the administration of the Cocos Islands. When the present Ordinance was passed in 1903, the legislature, with a certain bold disregard for geography, declared that the Cocos Islands formed part of the Settlement of Singapore, and that all the laws in force in Singapore should be in force in those islands. You have only to look at this formidable array of volumes in front of us to realise what that would have meant if it had ever been carried out, or if any attempt had been made to enforce the laws of the Colony in the Cocos Islands. Fortunately, these happy islands, up to the

===== Page 30 =====
Moment, have been practically free from the control of law and it is now necessary to make some practical provision for the administration of the Islands, and this Ordinance, instead of adopting the policy of applying all the laws of the Colony to it, makes provision for the application of specified Ordinances and makes provision for modifying those Ordinances in their application to the Islands.

Provision is also made for the setting up of a Court and for the appointment of a Magistrate. It is not the present policy of Government to set up an administration there, or to affect any personnel at present engaged in administering the Islands.

Sir, I move that the Bill be read a first time.

The Colonial Secretary:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The Bill is read a first time.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I beg to give notice that at the next meeting of Council I shall move the subsequent stages of the Bill.

TRADE UNIONS (AMENDMENT) BILL.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I move that the Trade Unions (Amendment) Bill be read a first time.

The only purpose of this amendment is to facilitate the promulgation of regulations made under the Ordinance.

I move that the Bill be read a first time.

The Secretary for Chinese Affairs:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The Bill is read a first time.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I beg to give notice that at the next meeting of Council I shall move the subsequent stages of the Bill.

LABOUR (AMENDMENT) BILL.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I move that the Labour (Amendment) Bill be read a first time.

The purpose of these amendments is to enable the provisions of the Labour Code applicable to the Indian Immigration Committee and the Indian Immigration Fund to be applied equally to immigrant labour from the Netherlands Indies.

I move that the Bill be read a first time.

The Secretary for Chinese Affairs:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The Bill is read a first time.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I beg to give notice that at the next meeting of Council I shall move the subsequent stages of the Bill.

WAR TAX (AMENDMENT No. 2) BILL.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I move that the War Tax (Amendment No. 2) Bill be read a first time.

There is no new matter in this Bill. It is, in substance, the same as Defence Regulations which were passed earlier in the year and which were submitted to Members of this Council in draft and approved by them. In fact, the provisions of this Bill confer substantial benefits on the tax-payer and for that reason it was thought at the time to be legitimate to proceed in that way.

It is necessary, however, to give formal legal sanction to these provisions and what was previously contained in the Defence Regulations now appears in the form of a Bill.

In the Committee stage of the Bill, my Honourable Friend Mr. WILLIAMSON is going to move a formal amendment in paragraph (2) (g) by the exclusion of the words "incorporated in the Colony or in the Federated Malay States". The purpose of that is to give a wider meaning to the exemption from taxation than is conferred by the paragraph as it appears. In other words, if a company

===== Page 31 =====
Pays the tax in the Federated Malay States or here, it will be entitled to deduct that from its return of income even if it were not incorporated in the Colony or in the Federated Malay States.

I move that the Bill be read a first time.

The Acting Financial Secretary:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.
The Bill is read a first time.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I beg to lay on the Table a Certificate of Emergency, signed by Your Excellency, and I move that the Standing Rules and Orders relative to the publication, reading and commitment of Bills be suspended, to enable the Bill to be taken through all its stages today.

The Acting Financial Secretary:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.
The motion is agreed to.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I move that the Bill be read a second time.

The Acting Financial Secretary:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.
The motion is agreed to, and the Bill is read a second time.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I move that Council now resolves itself into Committee to consider the Bill clause by clause.
Council in Committee.
Clause 2 is amended by deleting the words “incorporated in the Colony or in the Federated Malay States” in paragraph (2)(g) thereof.
The remainder of the Bill is agreed to without amendment.
Council resumes.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I beg to report that the Bill has passed through Committee with a minor amendment, and I now move that it be read a third time and passed.

The Acting Financial Secretary:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.
The motion is agreed to, and the Bill is read a third time and passed.

LABUAN (AMENDMENT) BILL.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I move that the Labuan (Amendment) Bill be read a first time.

The purpose of this amendment is to enable a District Judge to be appointed to the Court in Labuan. Under the terms of the present Ordinance, the Resident is ex-officio the District Judge, and there is no provision for appointing any other judge. A case has now arisen in which the Resident is a necessary witness, and that case is awaiting trial pending the passing of this amending legislation.

The Colonial Secretary:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.
The Bill is read a first time.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I beg to lay on the Table a Certificate of Emergency, signed by Your Excellency, and I move that the Standing Rules and Orders relative to the publication, reading and commitment of Bills be suspended to enable the Bill to be taken through all its stages today.

The Colonial Secretary:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.
The motion is agreed to.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I move that the Bill be read a second time.

The Colonial Secretary:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.
The motion is agreed to, and the Bill is read a second time.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I move that Council now resolves itself into Committee to consider the Bill clause by clause.
Council in Committee.

===== Page 32 =====
Clause 2 is amended by the addition of a marginal note as follows:
"Amendment of Section 45."

The remainder of the Bill is agreed to without amendment.

Council resumes.

The Attorney-General: Sir, I beg to report that the Bill has passed through Committee with a formal amendment, and I now move that it be read a third time and passed.

The Colonial Secretary: Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The motion is agreed to, and the Bill is read a third time and passed.

COMPULSORY SERVICE (LOCAL FORCES) (AMENDMENT) BILL.

The Attorney-General: Sir, I move that the Compulsory Service (Local Forces) (Amendment) Bill be read a first time.

This Bill will serve the same function as the recent Bill that we have passed dealing with War tax. This Bill again contains no new matter but merely gives legislative force to what was previously done by Defence Regulations. The provisions of this Bill were also referred to the Honourable Members in draft, and approved by them.

I move that the Bill be read a first time.

The Colonial Secretary: Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The Bill is read a first time.

The Attorney-General: Sir, I beg to lay on the Table a Certificate of Emergency, signed by Your Excellency, and I move that the Standing Rules and Orders relative to the publication, reading and commitment of Bills be suspended to enable the Bill to be taken through all its stages today.

The Colonial Secretary: Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The motion is agreed to.

The Attorney-General: Sir, I move that the Bill be read a second time.

The Colonial Secretary: Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The motion is agreed to, and the Bill is read a second time.

The Attorney-General: Sir, I move that Council now resolves itself into Committee to consider the Bill clause by clause.

Council in Committee.

The Bill is agreed to without amendment.

Council resumes.

The Attorney-General: Sir, I beg to report that the Bill has passed through Committee without amendment, and I now move that it be read a third time and passed.

The Colonial Secretary: Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The motion is agreed to, and the Bill is read a third time and passed.

FINAL SUPPLY BILL.

The Acting Financial Secretary: Sir, I move the first reading of a Bill for making final provision for the public service for the year 1940.

The Bill provides legislative authority for certain excesses over the expenditure authorised by law for that year. The Schedule to the Bill shows excess total expenditure of $17,344,873.80 under 14 main heads. The largest excess under any one head is $16,302,454.85 and this includes a contribution to the Imperial Government of  a31 million. Other large items were $533,000 for the embodiment and training of the Straits Settlements Volunteer Force, $326,954 being a contribution to the Singapore Improvement Trust, and $481,000 for Cost of Living Allowances. The excesses have received the consent of this Council where such consent was necessary, and have been fully explained in the Messages.

===== Page 33 =====
To this Council. Only net excesses of the various items appear in the Schedule to this Bill. On other heads of expenditure, savings to the amount of $3,234,806.45 were made.

I move that the Bill be read a first time.

The Colonial Secretary:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The Bill is read a first time.

The Acting Financial Secretary:—Sir, I give notice that at the next meeting of Council I shall move the subsequent stages of the Bill.

BANISHMENT (AMENDMENT) BILL.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I move that the Banishment (Amendment) Bill be read a second time.

Mr. A. H. Dickinson:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The motion is agreed to, and the Bill is read a second time.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I move that Council now resolves itself into Committee to consider the Bill clause by clause.

Council in Committee.

A new Clause 4 is inserted immediately after clause 3, as follows:

"Amendment of section 13. 4. Section 13 of the Principal Ordinance is hereby amended by inserting a new subsection (1A) immediately after subsection (1) thereof as follows—

"Endorsement on banishment order conclusive. (1A) An endorsement on a banishment order that it has been executed by placing the person named therein on a ship shall be conclusive evidence until the contrary be proved that the person ordered to be banished has been actually sent out of the Colony."."

The remainder of the Bill is agreed to without amendment.

Council resumes.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I beg to report that the Bill has passed through Committee with a minor amendment, and I now move that it be read a third time and passed.

Mr. A. H. Dickinson:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The motion is agreed to, and the Bill is read a third time and passed.

PENSIONS (AMENDMENT) BILL.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I move that the Pensions (Amendment) Bill be read a second time.

The Acting Financial Secretary:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The motion is agreed to, and the Bill is read a second time.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I move that Council now resolves itself into Committee to consider the Bill clause by clause.

Council in Committee.

The Bill is agreed to without amendment.

Council resumes.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I beg to report that the Bill has passed through Committee without amendment, and I now move that it be read a third time and passed.

The Acting Financial Secretary:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The motion is agreed to, and the Bill is read a third time and passed.

TRADE DISPUTES BILL.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I move that the Trade Disputes Bill be read a second time.

The Secretary for Chinese Affairs:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The motion is agreed to, and the Bill is read a second time.

===== Page 34 =====
The Attorney-General:—Sir, I move that Council now resolves itself into Committee to consider the Bill clause by clause.
Council in Committee.
Clause 6 is deferred for further consideration in Committee.
Clause 13 is amended by deleting the word "indictable" in line four thereof, and by substituting the word "punishable" therefor.
The remainder of the Bill is agreed to without amendment.
The Bill is left in Committee.

VOLUNTEER AIR FORCE (AMENDMENT) BILL.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I move that the Volunteer Air Force (Amendment) Bill be read a second time.

Mr. A. H. Dickinson:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.
The motion is agreed to, and the Bill is read a second time.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I move that Council now resolves itself into Committee to consider the Bill clause by clause.
Council in Committee.
The Bill is agreed to without amendment.
Council resumes.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I beg to report that the Bill has passed through Committee without amendment, and I now move that it be read a third time and passed.

Mr. A. H. Dickinson:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.
The motion is agreed to, and the Bill is read a third time and passed.

CONTROLLED PLANTS BILL.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I move that the Controlled Plants Bill be read a second time.

The Acting Commissioner of Lands:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.
The motion is agreed to, and the Bill is read a second time.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I move that Council now resolves itself into Committee to consider the Bill clause by clause.
Council in Committee.
The Bill is agreed to without amendment.
Council resumes.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I beg to report that the Bill has passed through Committee without amendment, and I now move that it be read a third time and passed.

The Acting Commissioner of Lands:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.
The motion is agreed to, and the Bill is read a third time and passed.

PERSONAL INJURIES (EMERGENCY PROVISIONS) BILL.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I move that the Personal Injuries (Emergency Provisions) Bill be read a second time.

The Acting Financial Secretary:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.
The motion is agreed to, and the Bill is read a second time.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I move that Council now resolves itself into Committee to consider the Bill clause by clause.
Council in Committee.
Clause 2 (r) (a) is amended by inserting the words "or during the training or exercise of armed forces" immediately after the words "by the enemy" in the last line thereof.

===== Page 35 =====
Clause 4(4) is amended by inserting the words "or of the Governor" immediately after the words "of the Authority" in the fourth line thereof.

The remainder of the Bill is agreed to without amendment.

Council resumes.

The Attorney-General: Sir, I beg to report that the Bill has passed through Committee with minor amendments, and I now move that it be read a third time and passed.

The Acting Financial Secretary: Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The motion is agreed to, and the Bill is read a third time and passed.

ADJOURNMENT.

The Colonial Secretary: Sir, I move that this Council do now adjourn and I give notice that the date of the next meeting of this Council has been provisionally fixed for the 5th of November, 1941.

Mr. Khoo Sian Ewe: Sir, the Farm School at Ayer Hitam, Penang, which was established in 1937 as a result of my advocacy, was intended to serve a dual purpose, that is to provide a means of employment as well as to stimulate public interest in food production. Unfortunately, however, the school enrolment has not come up to expectations lately because its students after graduation were not given facilities which would enable them to set up as small-holders and to utilise their knowledge of modern agricultural practice for the benefit of the country. As a solution of the problem, I suggested at the Budget Meeting of this Council in 1939 that Government might consider the development of a land settlement policy whereby Crown land suitable for cultivation of vegetables might be alienated on easy terms to deserving graduates of the Farm School. In reply, Government promised to make enquiries and see what could be done, but it is regrettable, Sir, that up to now no available land has been found. Food production is an essential industry in peacetime, and it is of vital importance in time of war as an aid to victory. With a steady increase in population due to the arrival of His Majesty's armed forces, there is all the more reason why this country should make a greater effort to cultivate sufficient food for home consumption. Since the matter is deserving of serious thought, I would again urge upon Government to consider the question of making small holdings, of two or three acres each, available to deserving graduates of the Farm School who should also be granted loans to enable them to rear poultry and livestock in addition to the cultivation of vegetables and fruits. Action along these lines, Sir, will furnish proof of Government's practical encouragement of food production, which is an important contribution to the War effort. Besides, it will foster the country's agricultural development and help to build up a body of self-supporting educated farmers who might otherwise have drifted into the ranks of the unemployed and thereby accentuate the problem of reconstruction after the War. (Applause).

Capt. N. M. Hashim: Sir, I feel that I must refer to Government Circular No. 13 of 1941, dealing with the serious pecuniary embarrassment of Government subordinate officers. I recognise that Government feels it necessary to take a stand about this matter of debts, and I think that is right. Something must be done. But at the same time I cannot think that this circular is the right way of tackling the problem. As it is against public policy to send first offenders, when convicted, to prison if there are alternatives, so it is against public policy to introduce this circular with its destructive provisions not only to the people concerned but to the country as a whole, while there are alternatives.

First, I would ask if, before coming to its decision Government had tried to find out what the effect of this circular would be. I have made enquiries and have found out that the numbers who will have to be dealt with vary from 70% to 90%. This figure is supported by the Wilson Report. The subordinate staff in this Colony numbers well over 16,000, including the Police, Medical, Postal, Education and Customs Departments, etc., but excluding Junior Asiatic Officers.

===== Page 36 =====
Employed in the various Government Departments instituted under the Defence Measures. It is presumed that there would be a very large number under this head which is not negligible. Taking the lower estimate, which is 70% of the given figure, Government may be faced in War Time with about 11,000 officers deprived of increments and made discontented. A large proportion of them may have to be dismissed, made homeless and thrown into the street with their families, probably including infants and aged dependants. Taking each officer with an average of four children of school age, it means that during the first four years of this circular coming into operation not less than 40,000 children will be deprived of reasonable education, so that with the passage of years there is increasing discontent. It is a matter of simple arithmetic as to how many are then made discontented as the years go on, who will never forgive the State and look upon it with hatred. And all this due to whose fault? I am speaking only of the Colony, and only as far as Government servants are concerned. I have not touched the Municipality and I hold no brief for the Malay States. These States and the Colony's Municipalities would naturally follow suit.

Please work out the number of discontented throughout Malaya particularly under present conditions—discontent handed down from generation to generation—and picture the situation! An intolerable position will be created. I should not be doing my duty if I did not disclose the fact that discontent already exists among this class of people for obvious reasons. We must not do anything further to allow it to strike root in this country, but we must do everything we can to eradicate it.

At this juncture I may be allowed to refer to a similar circular, No. 38 of 1933, which was withdrawn by Government in 1936, after representations urging its withdrawal were made in Council in June and August, 1936. (Council Proceedings, pp. B 25, 27, 31, 32, 50 and 52). I understand that a certain department alone lost almost 50% of its staff during the time that circular was in force.

Secondly, I would ask if Government has realised that it has, to a certain extent, encouraged indebtedness. Its officers have been pampered, so to speak. For example, advances of salary are given by Government for Muslim, Hindu and Chinese festivals. That is an encouragement to borrow. Further, even up to fifteen years ago, we had a law known as "Public Servants' Liabilities Ordinance" enabling public servants drawing salaries below a certain amount not to pay their debts.

I believe that two of our large Government departments—the Police and the Education Departments—will lose so large a proportion of their most experienced men that they would find it difficult to carry on.

With this Circular No. 13 we shall find necessary public services in danger. That is what I believe will happen if this circular is faithfully followed. It is not going to be of any use unless it is faithfully followed. All past efforts to check debts have failed for the same reason—they were too drastic to be applied.

This is the position as I see it. The circular will either prove impossible to apply or will cause much mischief if it is applied particularly under present circumstances. The conditions that exist, the admittedly disgraceful conditions that exist for which Government cannot be freed from some responsibility, cannot be left unchecked, but wholesale dismissals or financial penalties are not the ways to deal with them.

The British Empire, it is claimed, has been built on Justice, Sympathy, Freedom and Wisdom. In view of what have been disclosed and experimented with by a similar circular, Circular No. 38 of 1933, can it be said that this Circular No. 13 will operate with Justice? There is no sympathy in it. Instead of enforcing the Circular, let each case be dealt with separately as it comes to light, as stated by the Government in August, 1936. (Council Proceedings p. B 52.)

===== Page 37 =====
I crave the indulgence of Council for a small illustration. In 1914, before the last Great War, I had the honour of assisting Mr. S. H. McArthur, then Assistant Colonial Secretary and Clerk of Councils, to prepare a circular advising people not to eat polished rice but to eat undermilled rice, giving in justification of the advice full details of results of experiments on chickens and labourers at various places. Before publication, war broke out; I was sent for by Mr. McArthur and asked my opinion. Without hesitation, I told him that it was not wise to issue such a circular at that time as it would disturb the minds of the people and cause endless suspicions and empty but mischievous rumours regarding shortage of food, etc.

It is certainly not wise to bring Circular 13 into operation just now. If the Government had the courage to call an armistice to Circular 38 of 1933 in August 1936, in time of peace, Government ought to have double courage to withdraw or suspend this Circular 13 entirely at this time. It will never serve any good purpose at all; but... and a very big but too.

What is to be done and what can be done now? I suggest that action should be started with the newly appointed. Let the conditions stipulated in the circular be attached to the agreement of every new officer and let them be stringently applied from the very beginning. Thus we may in time create a better and stronger service.

As for the officers already in the Service, I do not suggest that they should be allowed to go on in the bad old way. But I suggest that they should not be made to forfeit increments or suffer any loss as long as they can prove that they are making a genuine effort to pay off or at least are not getting deeper into debt. It is a strange arrangement that deprives a man of the very extra money which might help him to get out of debt.

I might be allowed to make a reference to the admirable action taken recently by the Hon'ble the Inspector-General of Police as reported in the Straits Times of July 2, 1941, p. 11, under the heading "Police Candidates Pledge Loyalty. Asiatic Inspectors rise from Ranks at Depôt," by treating them as gentlemen. If you treat people as gentlemen you will get gentlemen. Those who cannot keep up will naturally fade away. You will win in the end is my humble opinion and belief.

There is one further remark I wish to make while it is time: that more subordinate officers get into debt than senior officers, yet I cannot regard it as right that there should be any difference in regulations or treatment. It is not unknown for senior officers to be in debt by any means. I urge that the regulations should be the same for everyone from the highest to the lowest. (Applause).

Lt.-Col. E. A. de Buriatte:—Sir, I again raise the question of manpower. In some parts of the Colony recruits are still required for Passive Defence and other voluntary services, including some of the companies of the Volunteers, and I submit for the consideration of Government the desirability of bringing all Asiatic British subjects within the working of the conscription Ordinance so as to fill these services without delay.

I further recommend for the consideration of Government that power be taken to transfer to the Straits Settlements Volunteer Force any members of the Local Defence Forces who are under the age of 30, and are not exempt from continuous training. At present, we have the spectacle of lusty youths standing in the ranks alongside men old enough to be their grandfathers. I understand that the Government of Ceylon has already taken such powers and I ask this Government to do the same. (Applause).

Mr. Claude da Silva:—Sir, reference has been made to Circular 13, and I feel I should say a word on it. There can be no doubt that the objects of that Circular are laudable but there has been cause for considerable alarm and, indeed, despondency in the ranks of the subordinates, and I am aware of some of it.

===== Page 38 =====
Now, Sir, the question of indebtedness has always been a problem which has taken up a good deal of the time of the departments, and I fear that it will always remain so; but, Sir, I think the angle of approaching the problem should be rather one of sympathy than one of seeking to punish. I do not deny that discipline must be maintained, and yet, when I see that people will be punished by being deprived of their increments, I ask myself whether that can be just. Surely, Sir, the test for refusing a man's increments should be his efficiency or inefficiency. If a man does his work well, my submission is that he should not be refused his increments if, in other respects, his character and behaviour are satisfactory. The mere fact that he is in debt should not, of itself, be a ground for further punishing the man and possibly driving him further into debt. Sir, I always feel that the voice of the subordinate man is not always sufficiently heard in these questions. I do not know whether, perhaps, a round-table conference would have been possible with recruits from the ranks represented in their different associations and whether methods might have been considered for alleviating distress, but I feel that to threaten a man with the dire penalties not only of loss of increment but of dismissal would be only to make that man's plight worse than it was at the beginning. I do doubt that that can possibly be the intention of Government.

Now, Sir, I feel that there is a case for the suspension of this Circular. I think, given consideration and attempts made at exploiting other methods of dealing with this problem of indebtedness, it might be possible for Government to be less drastic. Whatever may be the decision of Government in this matter, I trust that the deliberations and decisions will be tempered with mercy and that, should any errors be made by Government for once, those errors will be errors of clemency to the unfortunate under-dog. (Applause).

Mr. P. Sammy:—Sir, I should like to say a few words on the subject of a Bill which has just been introduced into Council to amend the Labour Ordinance.

At this critical period of our history when all the productive resources of the Empire have to be combined and harnessed towards the achievement of our supreme aim of vanquishing the enemy, the labour problem in Malaya has unfortunately given cause for some anxiety and employers are restrained by the force of circumstances from taking advantage of every available opportunity of recruiting labour.

The shortage of Indian labour in agricultural and industrial services, where they are the principal, if not the only, class of labour employed, is at the present moment undeniable. Ways and means must, however, be devised as a counterpoise to this shortage to attract the necessary complement of workmen from other countries into Malaya and the Bill now before Council seeks to obtain this aim by providing pecuniary assistance towards the immigration of labour from our neighbours, the Netherlands Indies. Much as I appreciate the motive of Government, I cannot help questioning the wisdom of amending that part of the Ordinance, namely Part 9, which in 1933 has been solely and exclusively devoted to the Indian Immigration Fund and has prescribed the mode of collecting and administering it. So far as my researches have gone, it appears that this Fund was originally created for the sole purpose of recruiting labour from South India (Madras Presidency and adjoining Indian States). The requisite monies were procured by an assessment levied on the employers of Indian labour in Malaya and were paid into this specially earmarked fund labelled the "Indian Immigration Fund," which was not to form part of the general revenue of the Colony.

That alone conveyed with it an implied undertaking on the part of the Government, or rather on the part of the Committee appointed to administer the Fund, that it was to be used solely in the interests and for the benefit of the Indian immigrants contemplated by Part 5 of the Ordinance and not for the recruitment of labourers indigenous to other countries such as contemplated by either Part 4 or Part 10 of the Ordinance. These parts relate to Chinese labourers and Netherlands Indian labourers respectively and no fund, as far

===== Page 39 =====
As I have been able to gather, no fund has ever been created for the benefit of labourers coming from the Netherlands Indies, although a considerable number of them are to be found employed in the Colony in the rubber estates up and down Malaya. Having regard, therefore, to the origin of the Fund, the causes that led up to its institution, and the sources from which it has been drawn and replenished, I doubt whether it would be strictly correct now to spend or divert the Indian Immigration Fund by appropriating it to a purpose which seems alien to its formation. (Applause).

The Colonial Secretary:—Sir, a request has been made that the Government should relax its intention to take disciplinary action against those of its servants who live in debt. I regret that I cannot give a favourable answer. The Government has come to the end of its patience, and if there is any feeling of discontent in this matter, Government alone is the party justified to entertain it. Colonial Regulation 54 lays it down that serious pecuniary embarrassment from whatever cause will be regarded as necessarily impairing the efficiency of an officer and rendering him liable to disciplinary proceedings at the discretion of the Governor. That is a very old regulation and it must be known to both the Honourable Members who have spoken that the Government has taken action to deal with this matter on so many occasions that its attitude towards it is perfectly clear and well-known to its staff and that this is yet another attempt to cure it. On the other hand the fact that so many of the servants in question are heavily in debt makes it clear that their attitude towards these efforts has been disregarded and even defiance, tempered, perhaps, by a hope that the Government is too busy to apply correction. Therefore, if this new form of correction is reasonable they can have no ground for complaint of either severity or surprise. The form of correction, I submit, is reasonable. It does not prohibit—it allows borrowing under the usual sound conditions attaching to the issue of credit. The punishment it provides I think is a logical outcome of that regulation I have just read. Serious pecuniary embarrassment impairs the efficiency of an officer and if any of those servants are found to be in that plight they are, in my opinion, quite properly judged as wanting in efficiency and, therefore, quite properly can be punished in the usual manner either by stoppage of promotion or deferment of increment, or, in aggravated cases, by removal from the Service.

The Honourable the Malay Member was wrong in speaking of dismissal. The punishment is removal from the service with such eligibility for pension or gratuity as they shall have earned. Such retirements go on steadily; there is nothing new or revolutionary in this proposal, and if the Honourable the Malay Member thinks this punishment is not inflicted on senior officers he is wrong. I can give him some names immediately and research would very quickly add some more. As I have said, Government feels that it must deal with this chronic and unnecessary evil and this is its attempt to cure it. The policy chosen has been considered carefully by officers who have an exhaustive knowledge of this subject and by officers who have spent a good deal of time which they feel might have been better devoted to public affairs in considering this question of indebtedness. The policy will not be applied harshly or without consideration of all the circumstances or the debtor 27s attitude to the future. But the Government cannot agree to defer or to weaken its decision nor does it see any merit in a proposal that the new offender shall be punished while the hardened sinners get off scot free.

The suggestion made by the Honourable Member, Col. de Buriatte, is noted as yet another sign of public opinion which, I think, is rapidly moving towards the need for considering whether the time has not come for extending compulsory service to British subjects who are not of European extraction. I will leave the matter at that. It bristles with difficulties largely of an administrative sort, and I don 27t think I can be expected to give a fuller answer at short notice such as this.

===== Page 40 =====
I think the Honourable Mr. Sammy's speech was a few weeks out of time. I think it is a speech which should be delivered on November 5th at the second reading of the Bill about which he spoke. At the second reading, Members are allowed to address the House on the principles of the Bill, and I think that that is what the Honourable Member was doing. At the same time, I think he must take into account this: that in connection with the recruiting of Javanese labour there must be certain expenditure, and that expenditure must be met. I think, in the early stages at any rate, the principles which he thinks should not be violated will have to be violated, but I have no doubt that as soon as the revenue comes in from assessment of this labour, the balance will be adjusted. But, of course, that is not a matter for this House—that is a matter for the Indian Immigration Committee that operates the Ordinance.

The Council adjourned.

===== Page 41 =====
LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.

SINGAPORE, WEDNESDAY, 5TH NOVEMBER, 1941.

10.30 a.m.

TABLE OF CONTENTS.
Pages 181 to 194.

Papers laid on the Table.
Nos. 55 to 63.

MOTIONS.

THE COLONIAL SECRETARY:
Adoption of the Reports of the Finance Committee on Messages Nos. 13 and 14 of 1941.

THE ACTING RESIDENT COUNCILLOR, PENANG:
Approval of the erection of a new jetty, Penang.
Approval of the extension of the crane quay, Penang.

THE ATTORNEY-GENERAL:
Approval of the Traffic (Amendment No. 4) Regulations, 1941.

THE ACTING FINANCIAL SECRETARY:
Adoption of recommendations respecting the Estimates for 1942 made by the Select Committees for Singapore and Labuan, Penang and Malacca, as amended by the joint report of the three Committees sitting together.
Approval of the Draft Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure for the year 1942.

BILLS.

Trade Disputes Bill ... Committee.
Do. do. ... 3rd Reading.
Destruction of Mosquitoes (Amendment) Bill ... 1st Reading.
Children (Amendment) Bill ... 1st Reading.
War Tax (No. 2) Bill ... 1st Reading.
King Edward VII College of Medicine (Amendment) Bill ... 2nd Reading.
Do. do. do. Committee.
Do. do. do. 3rd Reading.
Trade Marks (Amendment) Bill ... 2nd Reading.
Do. do. do. Committee.
Do. do. do. 3rd Reading.
Registration of United Kingdom Patents (Amendment) Bill ... 2nd Reading.
Do. do. do. Committee.
Do. do. do. 3rd Reading.

===== Page 42 =====
BILLS — continued.

Cocos Islands Bill .................................. Postponed.
Trade Unions (Amendment) Bill .................. 2nd Reading.
Do. do. .......................................... Committee.
Do. do. .......................................... 3rd Reading.
Labour (Amendment) Bill ........................ 2nd Reading.
Do. do. .......................................... Committee.
Do. do. .......................................... 3rd Reading.
Final Supply Bill ................................ 2nd Reading.
Do. .............................................. Committee.
Do. .............................................. 3rd Reading.

ADJOURNMENT.

Appreciation of the Acting Financial Secretary's work in connection with the War Tax (No. 2) Bill and the Estimates for 1942. Mr. J. I. DAWSON.

Circular 13 of 1941 respecting indebtedness of Government subordinates. Capt. N. M. HASHIM.

THE GOVERNOR.

Expression of gratitude to the organisers of the China Relief Fund for collecting funds for the Lord Mayor's National Air Raid Distress Fund.

THE GOVERNOR.

Appeal for contributions to the War Fund and the Malaya Patriotic Fund and for Poppy Day 1941.

THE GOVERNOR.

The Council adjourned.

===== Page 43 =====
LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.

SINGAPORE, WEDNESDAY, 5TH NOVEMBER, 1941.

10.30 a.m.

PRESENT:

HIS EXCELLENCY THE GOVERNOR (Sir SHENTON THOMAS, G.C.M.G., O.B.E.).
The General Officer Commanding the Troops, Malaya (Lieut.-General A. E. PERCIVAL, C.B., D.S.O., O.B.E., M.C.).
The Honourable the Colonial Secretary (Mr. S. W. JONES, C.M.G.).
The Acting Resident Councillor, Penang (Mr. L. FORBES).
The Attorney-General (Mr. C. G. HOWELL, K.C.).
The Acting Financial Secretary (Mr. A. SLEEP).
The Director of Public Works (Major R. L. NUNN, D.S.O.).
The Resident Councillor, Malacca (Mr. G. W. BRYANT).
The Director of Education (Dr. W. LINEHAN, D.LITT.).
The Secretary for Chinese Affairs (Mr. A. B. JORDAN).
The Director of Medical Services (Dr. R. B. MACGREGOR).
The Acting Commissioner of Lands (Mr. C. W. A. SENNETT).
Mr. A. H. DICKINSON, O.B.E.
Mr. L. A. ALLEN, O.B.E.
Mr. F. D. BISSEKER.
Mr. J. I. DAWSON.
Dr. LIM HAN HOE, C.B.E.
Mr. KHOO SIAN EWE, O.B.E.
Mr. TAY LIAN TECK.
Mr. G. WISEMAN.
Mr. R. WILLIAMSON.
Captain N. M. HASHIM, I.S.O.
Mr. E. N. C. WOOLLERTON.
Lieut.-Col. E. A. DE BURIATTE, E.D.
Mr. C. H. DA SILVA.
Mr. E. C. H. CHARLWOOD.
Mr. P. SAMMY.

The minutes of the meeting held on the 13th October, 1941 which had been circulated, were confirmed.

PAPERS.

The Colonial Secretary:—Sir, I have to lay on the Table Council Papers Nos. 55 to 63 of 1941.

No. 55. Report of Proceedings of the Finance Committee on Message No. 13 of 1941.
No. 56. Report of Proceedings of the Finance Committee on Message No. 14 of 1941.
No. 57. List of Persons in the Settlement of Labuan qualified to serve as Assessors under the Labuan Ordinance, for 1942.
No. 58. Report of the Income and Expenditure of the Education Board for 1940.
No. 59. Report of the Singapore and Labuan Select Committee on the Estimates for 1942.

===== Page 44 =====
No. 60. Report of the Penang Select Committee on the Estimates for 1942.
No. 61. Report of the Malacca Select Committee on the Estimates for 1942.
No. 62. Report of the Joint Select Committee on the Estimates for 1942.
No. 63. The Food Control Ordinance, 1939—Orders made by the Food Controller under—

MOTION BY THE COLONIAL SECRETARY.

The Colonial Secretary:—Sir, I move that this Council adopts the Reports of the Finance Committee on Messages Nos. 13 and 14 of 1941 laid on the table of the Council on the 5th November, 1941, as Council Papers Nos. 55 and 56 of 1941.

The Acting Financial Secretary:—Sir, I second the motion.

The motion is agreed to.

MOTION BY THE ACTING RESIDENT COUNCILLOR, PENANG.

The Acting Resident Councillor, Penang:—Sir, I move that this Council in accordance with Section 4 of the Foreshores Ordinance approves the erection by the Penang Harbour Board as agents of the Government at the joint expense of the Government and the said Penang Harbour Board of a new jetty, out from the foreshore and on the sea-bed adjacent thereto, abutting on lot 2' T.S. 24 Penang near the southern extremity of the south eastern boundary of the said lot 2', as delineated on Drawing No. A 300 which is deposited in the offices of the Colonial Secretary in Singapore and of the Resident Councillor in Penang.

The purpose of this erection is to implement the recommendation of the Committee appointed by Government to enquire into delays to shipping in the Port of Penang, advising that the quickest method of improving and increasing the facilities at Weld Quay is to double the length of the quayside accommodation. The only way in which this can be done is to build a jetty jutting out into the sea. This will double the length of the wharfage now available to users of Weld Quay and at the same time provide additional wharfage for the working of certain types of cargo from the Penang Harbour Board lighters.

Sir, I move the motion standing in my name, No. 1A in the Supplementary Orders of the Day.

The Director of Public Works:—Sir, I second the motion.

The motion is agreed to.

MOTION BY THE ACTING RESIDENT COUNCILLOR, PENANG.

The Acting Resident Councillor, Penang:—Sir, I move that this Council in accordance with Section 4 of the Foreshores Ordinance approves the extension by the Penang Harbour Board as agents of the Government at the expense of the said Penang Harbour Board of the crane quay in front of their Godown No. 1 on lot 2' T.S. 24 as delineated on Drawing No. A 300 which is deposited in the offices of the Colonial Secretary in Singapore and of the Resident Councillor in Penang.

The Penang Shipping Delays Committee consider that the present godowns available to the Harbour Board are insufficient to enable the Board to handle its lighter traffic expeditiously and efficiently, and made certain recommendations which involve the extension of the crane quay in front of godown No. 1 to accommodate two additional cranes.

Sir, I move the motion standing in my name No. 1B, in the Supplementary Orders of the Day.

The Director of Public Works:—Sir, I second the motion.

The motion is agreed to.

===== Page 45 =====
MOTION BY THE ATTORNEY-GENERAL.

The Attorney-General: Sir, I move that this Council approves the Traffic (Amendment No. 4) Regulations, 1941, made by the Governor in Council in exercise of powers conferred by Section 3 of the Traffic Regulation Ordinance and contained in Council Paper No. 47 of 1941, laid before this Council on the 13th of October, 1941.

The purpose of this amendment is to prevent parking along the whole length of Grove Road adjoining the Air Port. I think the object of this amendment is obvious.

Sir, I move the motion standing in my name, No. 2 in the Orders of the Day.

Mr. A. H. Dickinson: Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The motion is agreed to.

MOTION BY THE ACTING FINANCIAL SECRETARY.

The Acting Financial Secretary: Sir, I move that this Council adopts the recommendations in respect of the Estimates for 1942 made by the Select Committee for Singapore and Labuan in Council Paper No. 59 of 1941, by the Select Committee for Penang in Council Paper No. 60 of 1941 and by the Select Committee for Malacca in Council Paper No. 61 of 1941, as amended by the joint report of these three Committees sitting together which has been laid on the table today as Council Paper No. 62 of 1941.

In the report of the Joint Select Committee is a statement showing the classification of war revenue and war expenditure which has been unanimously agreed to by the members of the Select Committee for inclusion in the 1942 Estimates. It will appear after page 5 in the Estimates. The statement shows all the items appearing in the 1942 Estimates which have been classified as war revenue and all the items which have been classified as war expenditure.

This statement forms the basis of the classification of the account, which will be kept in the Treasury, of war revenue and war expenditure.

At the last meeting of Legislative Council on the 13th October, the Hon’ble Mr. Woollerton proposed that some, at any rate, of the war duties which are now remitted Home, should be retained for the Colony’s internal revenue, so that its Budget, excluding war revenue and war expenditure, can be properly balanced. It is agreed that this is a proposal which deserves the most careful and sympathetic consideration, but in the Estimates for the year 1942 the estimated deficit of normal expenditure over normal revenue, amounting to $5,270,619, is shown as being met from surplus funds. In the statement of war expenditure there have been entered charges totalling $4,762,000 for the servicing of War Loans and War Savings Certificates. It was recommended that increases in expenditure on normal supplies as a result of the war should not be included in the war expenditure, as these increases were not incurred for the prosecution of the war.

Both war revenue and war expenditure have been increased by $5 millions from the sale of War Savings Certificates, the proceeds of which are to be remitted to His Majesty’s Government.

The total war revenue amounts to $25,859,747 and the total war expenditure amounts to $21,379,469, giving an excess of war revenue over war expenditure estimated at $4,480,278.

Normal expenditure has been increased in Select Committee by revotes which have come to hand since the draft Estimates were compiled, amounting to $1,640,675. As a result of these changes, and the amendments approved in Select Committee, revenue, excluding war revenue, is estimated at $39,217,773 and expenditure, excluding war expenditure, at $44,488,392. This leaves a deficit of normal expenditure over normal revenue of $5,270,619, to be met from surplus funds.

===== Page 46 =====
I would like, Sir, to take this opportunity of thanking Hon'ble members for their great assistance in considering the Estimates during Select Committee.

The Colonial Secretary: Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The motion is agreed to.

MOTION BY THE ACTING FINANCIAL SECRETARY.

The Acting Financial Secretary: Sir, I move that this Council approves the draft Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure for the year 1942.

The motion has already been proposed and seconded at the last meeting of Council, the draft Estimates having been amended and stand amended as in the Resolution which has just been passed.

Sir, I move the motion standing in my name in the Orders of the Day.

The Colonial Secretary: Sir, I rise to second the motion.

Mr. F. D. Bisseker: Sir, at the last meeting when we originally were discussing the Estimates for 1942 I suggested that there might possibly be some confusion if the War Expenditure Account and the ordinary Account were not separated and shown quite clearly in the Estimates as being separate accounts. It is clear, Sir, from the remarks of my friend, the Hon'ble the Acting Financial Secretary, just now that that has been done in the Estimates which are now before Council.

I should like to express my appreciation of the readiness and the willingness with which my friend reacted to the proposals which were made. (Applause).

The motion is agreed to.

TRADE DISPUTES BILL.

The Attorney-General: This Bill was left in Committee.

The Governor: At the last meeting of this Council, this Bill was left in Committee, so the Committee will now proceed to deal with the Bill clause by clause.

Council in Committee.

Clauses 6, 7 and 8 are deleted.

Clauses 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 are re-numbered accordingly.

Clause 10 (re-numbered 7) is amended by deleting the words "other than an offence against section 7" in line two thereof.

The short title and enacting clause are agreed to without amendment.

Council resumes.

The Attorney-General: Sir, I beg to report that the Bill has passed through Committee with amendments, and I now move that the Bill be read a third time and passed.

The Secretary for Chinese Affairs: Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The motion is agreed to, and the Bill is read a third time and passed.

DESTRUCTION OF MOSQUITOES (AMENDMENT) BILL.

The Attorney-General: Sir, I move that the Destruction of Mosquitoes (Amendment) Bill be read a first time.

This Bill is based on recommendations which have been made by the Health Department of the Medical Service, and, as Honourable Members will see, Clause 4 contains the gist of the matter providing for holes which are likely to cause the breeding of mosquitoes to be filled up and levelled, and for notice of new planting and clearing of jungle to be given so that the matter may be properly supervised.

I move that the Bill be read a first time.

The Director of Medical Services: Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The Bill is read a first time.

The Attorney-General: Sir, I give notice that at the next meeting of Council I shall move the subsequent stages of the Bill.

===== Page 47 =====
CHILDREN (AMENDMENT) BILL.

The Attorney-General: Sir, this Bill gives effect to a decision of Government about two years ago that this problem of trafficking in boys, as it has been referred to, ought to be dealt with by legislation. The beginnings of this problem arose some years ago owing to war conditions in China, and originally there was a legitimate flow of boys, particularly to this country, for the purpose of getting them away from war conditions in China. Unfortunately, experience gained by this means showed certain people that there were profits to be made from starting an entirely different traffic in an entirely different class of children, and there grew up a certain amount of trafficking in boys who were either stolen or bought in China for the purpose of being brought to Malaya for sale here. It is not suggested that this problem is on any very alarming scale, but it is not one which any civilised Government could tolerate, and this Bill is intended to make the future as difficult as possible for the traffickers.

Clause 24A provides for the prohibition of unlawful transfers of possession, custody or control of children.

Clause 24B provides penalties for importing a child by false pretences, and Clauses 24C and 24D provide the procedure, which is familiar to us in other Ordinances, for supervision and examination of children.

Sir, I move that the Bill be read a first time.

The Secretary for Chinese Affairs: Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The Bill is read a first time.

The Attorney-General: Sir, I give notice that at the next meeting of Council I shall move the subsequent stages of the Bill.

WAR TAX (No. 2) BILL.

The Acting Financial Secretary: Sir, I move that the War Tax (No. 2) Bill be read a first time.

Before the next reading of the Bill I propose to follow the same practice as for the 1941 Bill and to invite Honourable Unofficial Members to meet informally to discuss the provisions of the Bill with the Attorney-General and myself, if they wish to do so.

The War Tax Ordinance, 1941, was drawn up on the lines of a previous 1919 Ordinance, and it was recognised that it would probably require amendment in order to even out certain inequalities and to improve the machinery of collection. A Standing Committee was therefore appointed to receive and consider reports on the working of the War Tax Ordinance, 1941, and to devise suitable legislation for 1942 in the light of these reports.

There have been very few complaints from individual taxpayers as to the working of the War Tax Department or the incidence of the tax.

It can be fairly said that the collection of the tax has worked smoothly and the fears of inquisition, disclosure of commercial secrets, difficulties presented by Asiatic methods of accounting, corruption, flight of capital and large scale evasion have proved to be unfounded.

The chief reason why there have been so few complaints about the inequalities of the War Tax Ordinance, 1941, is that the rates are very low, too low for the taxpayers affected to make complaints to the Public Relations Officer having regard to the purpose of the tax.

The Committee, however, examined the Ordinance very carefully clause by clause, and they have been helped by the work of the corresponding Committee in the Federated Malay States with whom there was an interchange of views, by the Association of Chartered Accountants, and also by the very full and detailed recommendations of the Straits Settlements (Singapore) Association who were assisted by the European Association of Malaya.

The Bill which is being read today is the Bill recommended by the Colony Standing Committee in almost all respects except the method of taxation of dividends of companies to which I shall refer later.

===== Page 48 =====
The amendments are summarised in the Objects and Reasons, and I propose to confine my comments to some of the major changes which distinguish the Bill from the 1941 Ordinance.

It is proposed to grant a marriage allowance of $2,000 to individuals resident in the Colony and the Federated Malay States. One of the reasons given by the 1940 Committee for not granting any marriage allowance in the 1941 Ordinance was that because of the high exemption of $4,800 a year and the low initial rates of the tax there was no real hardship to married taxpayers. Under the Bill we are considering, the minimum income has been lowered from $4,800 to $3,000 a year, thus bringing into the scope of the tax married taxpayers not previously liable. The Colony Committee first considered a marriage allowance of $1,000. It was then represented that this allowance was inadequate for a married man with children. This brought up the question whether family allowances should be granted for children, dependants, relatives, a housekeeper in charge of children in the case of a widower, or a widowed mother in the case of a bachelor. The ideal would be for each individual to be taxed according to his ability to pay judging each case on its merits, but, for purposes of collection, theoretical perfection must give way to practical expediency. It was therefore agreed that the line must be drawn somewhere, and that the only allowance should be a marriage allowance which should be raised from the proposed $1,000 to $2,000 on the understanding that it should be regarded as an adequate relief for an individual with a wife or wives and children. In granting such a generous allowance, it was recognised that in some families the wife has a separate income of her own. Provision is therefore made in the Bill that for taxing purposes the incomes of the husbands and wives shall be aggregated. Any husband or wife can choose to be assessed separately, but in order that the total tax payable by the husband and wife shall not be less than that which would have been payable if no separate assessment had been made, the separate incomes are aggregated for the purpose of determining the rates of tax and surtax payable.

One of the criticisms of the present 1941 Ordinance was directed at the method of taxing partnership profits, which in many cases are taxed at the maximum rate of 8% although the incomes of the partners if taxed separately would be subject to a lower rate. An amendment has therefore been made by which the partner in a business is assessed on his share of the partnership income at the rate appropriate to his total income as an individual.

I previously mentioned there is a major recommendation of the Colony Standing Committee which has not been incorporated in the Bill. It was proposed by the Committee to adopt the same method of taxing incorporated companies as in the United Kingdom by which the tax would have been deducted at source at the flat rate of 12% by the companies from the dividends distributed. Under this method each shareholder would be furnished with a statement showing the gross amount of such payment, and the rate and the amount of tax so deducted and the net amount actually paid. The tax so paid could be used as a set-off against the tax payable by the shareholder, or he could obtain a refund if he was not otherwise liable to pay the tax. In this way, each shareholder is taxed according to his ability to pay. The Federated Malay States Committee, however, found the objections to the acceptance of this proposal too great, and as uniformity throughout Malaya in such matters is essential in order to avoid confusion in the collection of the tax, a fact which was recognised by the Federated Malay States Committee in accepting for the sake of uniformity some of the Colony Committee's recommendations, this proposed amendment has not been included in the Bill.

Under the Bill no relief from tax is granted in respect of income arising in the Colony of an individual who is not resident in the Colony or the Federated Malay States irrespective of the amount of such income. Non-resident individuals will be required to pay tax at the flat maximum rate of 12% under Schedule A.

===== Page 49 =====
All income arising in the Colony is subject to the tax in the Colony, and if such income is liable to be taxed in some other part of the Empire, it is left to the company, association or individual taxed to seek relief elsewhere in the British Empire. The Bill also provides for relief from the Colony tax of income arising outside the Colony but brought into the Colony which has borne tax elsewhere in the Empire at a rate not less than the Colony rate.

The Inter-Departmental Colonial Office Committee on Income Tax, 1922, came to the conclusion that the most appropriate scheme for the Colonies generally is one which imposes tax upon income which either has its origin in the Colony, or, while having its origin outside the Colony, is received in the Colony.

The Colony Committee was guided by this recommendation and was influenced by the argument that income is much more likely to be correctly assessed for tax in the country in which it arises where the Collectors have better local knowledge of the facts than the authorities in the country of the non-resident taxpayer.

The amendments provide for relief from double taxation in the case of income arising outside the Colony but brought into the Colony if tax has been paid or will be paid elsewhere in the Empire at a rate not less than the Colony rate, leaving similar relief from double taxation to be granted elsewhere in the case of income arising in the Colony and brought into some other part of the Empire.

The definitions of "association" and "company" have been amended so that "company" includes a corporation sole but does not include a body or association of persons not incorporated.

In the definition of income the phrase "company, association, or person" has been amended to "company, association or individual" because in the Interpretation Ordinance the definition of "person" includes any body or persons corporate or unincorporate.

The definition of "individual" includes a Hindu Joint Family which is included in the present Ordinance in the definition of "association." This change is necessary because of the proposed method of taxing partnerships. The Hindu Joint Family will be taxed as at present.

It has been found necessary to define "person resident in the Colony" because of the residential qualification in Section 6 (i) (n) whereby incomes of less than $3,000 a year of individuals and associations resident in the Colony are exempt from liability to the tax.

Individuals who have actually been in the Colony or in the Federated Malay States for an aggregate period exceeding one half of the financial year assessed will be regarded as resident in the Colony.

Government quit rent has been allowed as a deduction from annual value in calculating "net annual value."

Where a place of residence is provided by an employer at a rent less than the annual value, the excess of the annual value over the rent is regarded as salary, and therefore, as income for the purpose of the tax. Under the present Ordinance any excess over 10% of salary from other resources is disregarded. It was considered by the Committee that in many cases in the Colony individuals are living in houses of which the annual value is considerably more than 10% of the occupant's salary, and the maximum of 10% has been altered to 15% in the Bill.

An amendment has also been included in Section 7 (i) (a) providing relief from the tax in respect of the income of trusts established for charitable purposes only. The corresponding section in the present Ordinance includes religious, educational or charitable companies or associations, but not trusts formed for charitable purposes.

In Section 7 (i) (b) of the Bill there is a revision of the provisions concerning deductions from taxable income of premia paid to life insurance companies. This relief is to be limited to one-sixth of income or $4,000 whichever is the [POSSIBLY MISSING].

===== Page 50 =====
The insurance must be effected by an individual on his life or on the life of his wife, and must be made with a life assurance company incorporated within the British Empire.

Another criticism against the present 1941 Ordinance is that it provides no relief in respect of previous business losses. The Bill we are considering authorises in Section 7(i)(n) a valid deduction of losses incurred during the year preceding the financial year assessed which has not already been allowed as a deduction from the taxable income of the previous year. Deductions are also allowed for certain allowances in respect of expenditure in replacement by the owner of obsolete plant and machinery employed in a business.

Under Section 17 of the present 1941 Ordinance, the assessment of income which cannot readily be ascertained by the Collector, or where satisfactory accounts have not been kept, is under the law computed by the Collector jointly with two or more Assessors. It has been found that in some cases businessmen are averse to the appointment of Assessors who sometimes are men in the same type of business as themselves, and they have stated that they would prefer the assessment to be carried out by the Collector alone without the Assessors. The Bill makes it optional for the taxpayer to choose whether the assessment shall be carried out by the Collector alone, or by the Collector in conjunction with two Assessors to be selected by the Collector.

In Section 19 of the Bill, there is a necessary safeguard to the revenue where business is carried on between a non-resident and a resident person so closely connected that the business is so arranged that it either produces no profits to the resident person or less than the ordinary profits which might be expected to arise. If the profits arise from the sale of goods manufactured outside the Colony, the profits shall be deemed to be not less than the profits which might reasonably be expected to be made where the dealers are not closely connected.

The law has been amended also by clarifying in Section 20 the method of ascertaining the profits of insurance companies.

Sections 30 and 31 of the Bill provide for the method of payment of the tax by trustees on the income from the estate of a deceased person by deduction of the tax at source from any income distributed to beneficiaries. Any sums so paid can be set off by the beneficiaries in payment of the tax on their individual incomes, or if not liable to tax, they can claim a refund.

In consequence of the inclusion of Surtax into the Bill, it is necessary to prevent avoidance of the tax by providing in Section 56 that the undistributed profits of companies controlled by not more than five individuals may be deemed to be distributed to the individual shareholders who shall be assessed to tax accordingly.

Finally we come to the Schedules at the end of the Bill imposing the new rates.

One of the criticisms of the present 1941 Ordinance was that the minimum at which an individual should be called upon to pay should be $3,000 instead of $4,800, and that the rate should be considerably higher on the big incomes and large profits with a just scale of allowances and deductions. There is complete agreement between the Colony and the F.M.S. as to the proposed rates of tax, the 1941 rates being considered to be too low especially in the case of the larger incomes. The scale in Schedule A (ordinary tax) commences at a total income of $3,000, and the maximum rate has been raised from 8% to 12% which is charged on total incomes not less than $20,000. The progressive increases in the rate from 2% to 12% have been spread over increases in total income from $3,000 to $20,000, and in doing so, the number of intermediate steps or divisions of income have been increased and are different from the divisions in Schedule A of the 1941 Ordinance, because it was felt that the higher incomes could bear increases better than the lower incomes.

Whilst the unmarried man under Schedule A of the Bill pays considerably more than at present, the married man by reason of the marriage allowance pays less for total incomes of $11,000 and below that figure. On the other hand,

===== Page 51 =====
Where the wife has a separate income of her own, then, by the operation of the aggregation of incomes, it may happen that a married man may pay at a higher rate than at present. In such cases, there is greater ability to pay by reason of the combined family incomes. In recommending the scale and the incidence of taxation at different salaries, consideration has been given to the expenditure incurred by the married man who has children to educate outside Malaya.

The scale in Schedule B (Sur-tax) commences at a total income of over $20,000, and the rate increases in respect of successive additions to total income until $50,000 is reached, all income above $50,000 being subject to a flat rate of 20%. It should be noted that the allowances and deductions are not so generous in the case of sur-tax (Schedule B) as in the case of Schedule A. In particular, no deductions for the purpose of sur-tax are allowed for income derived from the cultivation of rubber and the mining of tin ore, payments towards Widows' and Orphans' Pensions Fund, Provident Funds or Life Assurance Premia, dividends received from companies including dividends received from tin and rubber companies, or any marriage allowance. Because of the few deductions allowed, the scale of sur-tax has been increased progressively by the slab system, and not the step system as in the case of Schedule A.

Further, for the purpose of sur-tax, if the income of an individual is different from his "total income", the sur-tax payable will bear the same proportion to the total sur-tax which would be payable if the total income were his income, as his income bears to his total income. For example, a resident in the Colony with a total income of $55,000 all of which arises in the Colony, would pay sur-tax of $5,200 calculated as in Schedule B. If, however, $25,000 of his total income had arisen outside instead of inside the Colony, his income subject to sur-tax would be $30,000 and not $55,000 and the sur-tax payable would be 30,000/55,000 of $5,200, i.e. $2,836.

The part of any income above $50,000 is subject to a maximum rate of sur-tax of 20%, and in no case therefore, can even the largest incomes be subject to aggregate rates over the whole income exceeding 12% for Schedule A and 20% for Schedule B, i.e. 32% in all, or about 6s. 5d. in the £.

The maximum rate of ordinary tax under Schedule A is 12% or 2s. 5d in the £ where the total income exceeds $20,000 or £2,333 6s. 8d.

Any criticism of these rates must be that they are not high enough particularly the sur-tax on the largest incomes having regard to the rates of tax imposed in other Empire countries. Proposals, if any, to increase the rates can be considered by Council in Committee.

In the event of any other Malayan administrations deciding to levy a war tax, it was recommended by the Colony Standing Committee that the benefits and reliefs conferred by the Bill upon individuals resident in the Colony or in the F.M.S. should be extended to individuals resident in the territory of such other Malayan administrations. This was on the assumption that the War Tax would be a pan-Malayan tax enacted in every administration in uniform language subject to necessary local modifications.

The total estimated yield of revenue to be raised under the Bill is $20,000,000 which is about twice the yield in the present 1941 Ordinance which does not include sur-tax.

The Bill goes far to eliminate major inequalities in the present 1941 Ordinance, and it can be considered that the mechanism by which the tax is imposed and collected has been greatly improved. It would be a comparatively simple matter to retain the mechanism and raise the rates by a percentage increase to be uniformly imposed both in the Colony and in the F.M.S.

In considering this Bill, its machinery and the proposed increased rates, I would ask Honourable Members to bear in mind the common sacrifices we all should be prepared to make for the defence of Malaya and the Empire. This is the third year of the war and we have no illusions as to the effort which is required to achieve victory.

===== Page 52 =====
The resolution of this Council is required to impose taxation, to provide effective means of collecting it and to distribute the burden amongst those who are able to pay.

I am confident that Honourable Members will view the provisions of this Bill in their right perspective, and will rightly come to the conclusion that the increased rates in this Bill should be imposed.

Sir, I move the Bill be read a first time. (Applause).

The Colonial Secretary:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The Governor:—In asking the House to allow the Bill to be read a first time, I should just like to add my tribute to that paid by the Acting Financial Secretary to the very careful work done and the very constructive suggestions made by the Straits Settlements (Singapore) Association and the European Association.

The Bill is read a first time.

The Acting Financial Secretary:—Sir, I give notice that at the next meeting of Council I shall move the subsequent stages of the Bill.

KING EDWARD VII COLLEGE OF MEDICINE (AMENDMENT) BILL.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I move that the King Edward VII College of Medicine (Amendment) Bill be read a second time.

The Director of Medical Services:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I move that Council now resolves itself into Committee to consider the Bill clause by clause.

Council in Committee.

The Bill is agreed to without amendment.

Council resumes.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I beg to report that the Bill has passed through Committee without amendment, and I now move that it be read a third time and passed.

The Director of Medical Services:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The motion is agreed to, and the Bill is read a third time and passed.

TRADE MARKS (AMENDMENT) BILL.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I move that the Trade Marks (Amendment) Bill be read a second time.

Mr. L. A. Allen:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I move that Council now resolves itself into Committee to consider the Bill clause by clause.

Council in Committee.

The Bill is agreed to without amendment.

Council resumes.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I beg to report that the Bill has passed through Committee without amendment, and I now move that it be read a third time and passed.

Mr. L. A. Allen:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The motion is agreed to, and the Bill is read a third time and passed.

REGISTRATION OF UNITED KINGDOM, PATENTS (AMENDMENT) BILL.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I move that the Registration of United Kingdom Patents (Amendment) Bill be read a second time.

Mr. L. A. Allen:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The motion is agreed to, and the Bill is read a second time.

===== Page 53 =====
The Attorney-General: Sir, I move that Council now resolves itself into Committee to consider the Bill clause by clause.

Council in Committee.

The Bill is agreed to without amendment.

Council resumes.

The Attorney-General: Sir, I beg to report that the Bill has passed through Committee without amendment, and I now move that it be read a third time and passed.

Mr. L. A. Allen: Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The motion is agreed to, and the Bill is read a third time and passed.

COCOS ISLANDS BILL.

The Attorney-General: Sir, with leave of the Council, I should like the second reading to be deferred until the next meeting of Council. Mr. CLUNIES Ross has asked for a little time to consider the present draft Bill which has been revised since he saw the original draft. I think we ought to be able to proceed on the 8th of December.

The Governor: The Bill is accordingly postponed.

TRADE UNIONS (AMENDMENT) BILL.

The Attorney-General: Sir, I move that the Trade Unions (Amendment) Bill be read a second time.

The Secretary for Chinese Affairs: Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The motion is agreed to, and the Bill is read a second time.

The Attorney-General: Sir, I move that Council now resolves itself into Committee to consider the Bill clause by clause.

Council in Committee.

A new clause 2 is inserted as follows:

2. Subsection (r) of section 8 of the Principal Ordinance is hereby amended by the deletion of the words "the date on which this Ordinance comes into force" which occur in the last two lines thereof and the substitution thereof of the words "such date as the Governor may by notification in the Gazette appoint".

Clause 2 is re-numbered 3 accordingly.

The remainder of the Bill is agreed to without amendment.

Council resumes.

The Attorney-General: Sir, I beg to report that the Bill has passed through Committee with a formal amendment, and I now move that it be read a third time and passed.

The Secretary for Chinese Affairs: Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The motion is agreed to, and the Bill is read a third time and passed.

LABOUR (AMENDMENT) BILL.

The Attorney-General: Sir, I move that the Labour (Amendment) Bill be read a second time.

The Secretary for Chinese Affairs: Sir, I rise to second the motion.

Mr. P. Sammy: Sir, at the last meeting of this Council when this Bill was introduced and read for the first time, I said that I doubted whether it would be strictly correct to divert the Immigration Fund to a purpose which was alien to its original formation. Since then, Sir, I have had the opportunity of reading a resolution passed by the Federated Malay States Council on the 19th of October last, when that Council determined that the Fund might be disbursed for expenses to be incurred in connection with labour, that is to say, expenses for the importation of Indian labour, their maintenance and expenses utilised for travelling.

Sir, when we come to consider this Bill, it appears to me that the duties of the Committee are defined. They are supposed to administer the Fund and the

===== Page 54 =====
Objects of the Fund are clearly set out in section 123, Part 9 of the Ordinance. To do something which the Ordinance does not provide appears to me to be violating the letter and spirit of the Ordinance. At the last meeting, I believe I am right in saying so that the Honourable the Colonial Secretary said that the principle to which I have referred had to be violated and that an adjustment will in due course be made in respect of the Fund. Sir, may I take the liberty to assume that it is the intention of Government to keep the Fund separate from the moneys which will be collected from time to time from the employers of Javanese or other labour?

The Attorney-General:—Sir, in reply to my Honourable Friend Mr. SAMMY, I have discussed this point with the Controller of Labour since the last meeting of Council and he assures me that there is no intention whatever to mix funds which will be collected in respect of Javanese labour with the present funds which form part of the Indian Immigration Fund and which have been collected in respect of immigrants from Southern India. It may, of course, be necessary in the initial stages to loan money from one Fund to another, or one account to another, but that will be strictly accounted for and will be adjusted in due course.

The Governor:—I should like to add that there is no suggestion that by any financial arrangement, such as the Attorney-General has mentioned, will the interests of one class of the community be benefitted at the expense of another. The motion is agreed to, and the Bill is read a second time.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I move that Council now resolves itself into Committee to consider the Bill clause by clause.

Council in Committee.

The Bill is agreed to without amendment.

Council resumes.

The Attorney-General:—Sir, I beg to report that the Bill has passed through Committee without amendment, and I now move that it be read a third time and passed.

The Secretary for Chinese Affairs:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The motion is agreed to, and the Bill is read a third time and passed.

FINAL SUPPLY BILL.

The Acting Financial Secretary:—Sir, I move that the Final Supply Bill be read a second time.

The Colonial Secretary:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The motion is agreed to, and the Bill is read a second time.

The Acting Financial Secretary:—Sir, I move that Council do now resolve itself into Committee to consider the Bill clause by clause.

Council in Committee.

The Bill is agreed to without amendment.

Council resumes.

The Acting Financial Secretary:—Sir, I beg to report that the Bill has been considered in Committee and has been agreed to without amendment, and I now move that it be read a third time and passed.

The Colonial Secretary:—Sir, I rise to second the motion.

The motion is agreed to, and the Bill is read a third time and passed.

ADJOURNMENT.

The Colonial Secretary:—Sir, I move that this Council do now adjourn, and I give notice that the next meeting of this Council has been fixed provisionally for the 8th of December.

Mr. J. I. Dawson:—Sir, we have listened this morning to an extremely able exposition of the War Tax Ordinance by the Acting Financial Secretary. That exposition is the fruit of a very great deal of hard work and study and consideration.

===== Page 55 =====
The Acting Financial Secretary has also put before us very large and complicated Estimates for the year 1942, the compilation of which, the discussion regarding them and the settlement of various points have involved for him a very great deal of work and a very great deal of negotiation. I feel sure that Hon'ble members will join with me in appreciation of his excellent performance. (Applause).

Capt. N. M. Hashim:—Sir, I make no apology for once again referring to the Debt Circular. It is the cause of much anxiety, discussion and misunderstanding and it is very desirable that it should be given as much publicity as possible.

In the first place I wish to thank the Hon'ble the Colonial Secretary for putting me right in one important matter. Like many others I misunderstood the penalty. It has now been made clear. To quote the Hon'ble the Colonial Secretary: "Punishment is removal from the Service with such eligibility for pensions or gratuity as they shall have earned".

My plea now is that paragraph 4 (b) of the Circular should be applied equally in all Departments. Let me quote the part concerned. "Failure to disclose such embarrassment or the furnishing of false information with a view to obtaining promotion or an increment will, if discovered, lead to the dismissal of the officer concerned on the grounds of dishonesty and unreliability".

I cannot quote instances because I keep no record; but I know that it was generally felt in the last debt drive that some Departments were more severe than others. I would ask that as far as possible there may be even treatment. I know that it is difficult with so large a number of employees for this to be arranged. But it will give great confidence if it is known that the spirit of sympathetic help that has been indicated will govern all actions taken, that it is the spirit and not the letter of the law that will decide.

A clerk, a teacher, a peon—it matters not who it is—is sometimes afraid of his superior. Some "bosses" have sympathy and understanding and their men go to them and obtain their advice and help before matters become serious. Others "bosses" take no interest in their men at all, terrify them in fact, so that the men are tempted to lie in order to keep their livelihood, fearing that the disclosure of any debt at all may lead to attacks and loss of their jobs. We may condemn these men as cowards, but I am only describing what sometimes happens.

I appeal therefore for a sympathetic understanding by the masters of the difficulties of the men. I know that some Heads of Departments go to great trouble to get acquainted with their men, to take a personal interest in them. But I also know that some do not. This is partly due to the changes that take place. Heads of Departments get moved so often that they are not long enough in one job to be able to get to know their men. These changes are unavoidable and inevitable.

May I suggest therefore that Government should make it known that they wish Heads of Departments to get to know their men? I am aware that there is no General Order requiring this, but I am sure that it would make a great difference if the men felt that in approaching the Heads of their Departments they were approaching friends as well as "bosses".

Government is a great machine we are told. But men are men and the men will work more happily and with more success if friendship oils the wheels of the machine. Please do not misunderstand me. I do not wish to suggest that all Heads of Departments are tyrants. That is far from the case. But I do ask that Government should strive to impress upon all senior officers that they should remember that they have men working for them and that a little human interest and friendship will be a very great help in solving many problems and especially this problem of debt. (Applause).

===== Page 56 =====
The Governor:—I think that the Hon. the Malay member has been indulging in special pleading. The Circular is an instruction by Government to Government employees, and I do not see how any Government could accept an excuse from an employee that he did not carry out the terms of an instruction through fright. Most of the Heads of Departments do take an interest in their staff, but if there is any employee who is afraid to put the true statement of his indebtedness before the Head of his Department, he may put it, if he wishes, to the Colonial Secretary who will put it to the Head of his Department with an enquiry why it was not put to that officer direct.

I would suggest also to the Hon’ble member that as a responsible person—a leader in his community—he should take a great part in impressing upon these employees of Government or commercial firms or others the importance of getting out of debt. As an ex-member of the Co-operative Department he knows better than most of us the value which freedom from indebtedness is to the mental outlook and the general happiness of any employee, and the request that I make of him I make also of other members—leaders of their communities—that they too should take all possible steps to point out to these employees that we are not being harsh and unscrupulous or unkind, but we must try to get rid of this very dreadful danger which indebtedness is creating in all ranks of society in the Colony.

During the first week in September, as an expression of the gratitude of the Chinese in Malaya for the collections made in England on July 7th for the benefit of sufferers in China, and to mark their sympathy with air-raid victims in Britain, the organisation of the China Relief Fund, Singapore, was used to collect funds throughout Malaya for the Lord Mayor’s National Air Raid Distress Fund. As the result of this “Aid to Britain Week” already over $139,000, say £16,250, has been sent home, and I desire to express to the organisers of the campaign my sincere gratitude for this splendid gesture on the part of the Chinese community. (Applause). At a time when their own people are sore beset, they have come forward of their own wish to contribute to the relief of others. This thoughtfulness, this generous mark of sympathy will be warmly appreciated by the people of Great Britain who, with the people of China, are fighting for freedom and have their faces set towards victory.

And while I am on the subject of giving, may I say a few more words. There will be few to quarrel with the view that here in Malaya from the very beginning of the war we have been fortunate in being able to concentrate on two funds, the War Funds of the Colony and the Federated Malay States for the purchase of aircraft and other engines of war, and the Malaya Patriotic Fund for the relief of war-distress, either of which will meet the wishes of any man who desires to give to war purposes. Just on £1 million sterling—a formidable sum—has been collected by the former and over £360,000 by the latter. It is beyond dispute that better value for money is obtained if it flows strongly through a few channels than if it is distributed here, there, and everywhere in driblets; and anyone who wishes to make a gift of money for the war can offer it to one of these two funds in the knowledge that it will be put to the best possible purpose. If there is doubt which fund to assist, the answer is clear: help should be given to both. Both are equally deserving in their own way and both make strong appeal. Both, in fact, are able to satisfy that desire to give which is so wonderfully displayed by the people of Britain and is so constantly in evidence in Malaya.

And for the next week or so there will be another very special opportunity for the satisfaction of that desire. Poppy Day is already a day of remembrance for the men of the last war: it is to be a day of remembrance for the men of this war also. And so, as the years go on, I think it will become more and more a bond of Empire, a link between all the freedom-loving people of the world, when the people of Britain, of India, of the Dominions, of Asia and Africa and indeed all over the world stand side by side on the same day in remembrance of their brave men and women who dared the same things for the same cause. (Applause).

The Council adjourned.

===== Page 57 =====
No. 246
Your note No. 182. Estimates approved.

FURTHER ACTION.

===== Page 58 =====
My Lord,

With reference to Your Lordship's Circular Despatch dated the 8th August, 1941, on the subject of the procedure to be followed in submitting the Colonial Estimates, I have the honour to forward herewith the following documents:

Encl: (1) (a) A copy of the Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure for 1942 as passed by the Legislative Council.

Encl: (2) (b) A copy of a Memorandum by the Acting Financial Secretary on the 1942 Estimates as passed by the Legislative Council.

Encl: (3) (c) A copy of my Address to the Legislative Council on the 13th October, 1941.

Encl: (4) (d) Copies of the Proceedings of the Legislative Council of the 13th October, 1941, and the 5th November, 1941, relative to these Estimates.

Six additional copies of each of these enclosures are being sent by ocean mail.

2. The Supply Bill to give legal authority to the approved Estimates of Expenditure was introduced by the Acting Financial Secretary at the meeting of the Legislative Council on the 8th December, 1941, when it was taken through all its stages and passed.

3. For the general financial position of the Colony I would refer Your Lordship to the Memorandum on the 1942 Estimates prepared by the Acting Financial Secretary.

4. As total revenue and expenditure cannot be compared with pre-war figures without taking into account the large increases due to War Revenue and War Expenditure, both of the latter have been totalled and shown separately from normal revenue and normal expenditure.

5. The 1942 Estimates provide for total normal expenditure, $44,488,392 and total normal revenue, $39,217,773, leaving an anticipated deficit of $5,270,619.

This deficit will be met from the General Revenue Balance, which on the 1st January, 1942, is estimated will be $70.8 millions of which approximately $41 millions may be regarded as liquid after deducting $29.8 millions on account of loans, advances and imprests. In addition to the estimated deficit of $5.2 millions, there are commitments and contingent liabilities shown at page 5 of the Estimates amounting to $5 millions and $9 millions are required for Treasury working balances, so the available liquid balance on the 31st December, 1942, should be about $21.8 millions.

6. The estimated excess of War Revenue over War Expenditure is $4,480,278 and this will be shown in the Statement of Assets and Liabilities in 1942 as a separate liability not included in the General

The Right Honourable
Lord Moyne, P.C.,
etc., etc., etc.,
COLONIAL OFFICE.

===== Page 59 =====
General Revenue Balance, in order to carry out the intention of Legislative Council that such balances of war revenue should be earmarked to meet further war expenditure, and later that the balance should be remitted to His Majesty's Government when the outlook is clear and the possibility of having to meet heavy war expenditure in Malaya has no longer to be faced.

7. Since the Estimates were passed, the Legislative Council has approved on the 8th December, 1941, the War Tax (No. 2) Ordinance, 1941, imposing increased rates of tax on incomes including a surtax with effect from the 1st January, 1942, and the estimated increase in war revenue is $5 million from this source.

8. I have under consideration a proposal of the Unofficial Members of the Legislative Council that the revenue from some of the war duties introduced since the outbreak of war for the purpose of meeting expenditure incurred in the prosecution of the war and now classified as war revenue should be used to balance the ordinary budget.

The possibility of raising further revenue from indirect taxation is also under consideration with a view to decreasing the deficit on the ordinary budget but with diminishing supplies of dutiable imports the yields from the present tariff will decrease, and an increase in duty may achieve no more than the maintenance of revenue from indirect taxation at its present level.

9. War Expenditure shows an increase of $6,321,818 over the 1941 Estimates, the chief increases being $2,345,333 for charges on account of the Public Debt, $414,727 for Air Raid and Bombardment Precautions, $669,416 increase in the contribution to the Imperial Government from War Duties, and $2,000,000 increase in the gift to the Imperial Government from the proceeds of sale of War Savings Certificates. The total estimated contributions to the Imperial Government from war revenue for 1942 are $11,086,820 as compared with $8,417,404 for 1941. The Defence Contribution of $4,000,000 according to law, and the special Defence Contribution of $2,000,000 are shown separately as chargeable against normal revenue as in previous years.

10. A token vote of $10,000 has been entered for the Medical Auxiliary Service and $80,000 is voted for Civil Liabilities, Malayan Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve and Malayan Volunteer Air Force. In the event of hostilities in Malaya, the actual expenditure would be very much more than the amounts entered.

11. Strict economy in normal expenditure continues and the consideration of new salary schemes, salary scales and re-organisations of personnel which might lead to increases in departmental expenditure, has been postponed until a more favourable opportunity presents itself.

Encl: (5)

I enclose a Schedule setting out the more important additions to the Estimates under Personal Emoluments and giving reference to the relevant correspondence.

12. Under Miscellaneous Services is shown the approximate estimated cost of the Malayan part of the expenditure on the Malaya Broadcasting Corporation comprising capital expenditure of $553,000 and recurrent expenditure $665,000. The apportionment of costs between the Malayan Governments and His Majesty's Government is still under consideration.

13. During 1942, the staff of the Public Works Department is likely to be occupied as at present with urgent defence works and only continuation works and the most urgent items have been entered under Public Works Extraordinary, the total estimated expenditure being $1,172,216 of which $1,056,216 is for revotes and continuation works.

===== Page 60 =====
Most of the available building materials and skilled labour are required for defence works. There has been a marked rise in the tendered costs of buildings, and I have decided that the Government should hold back its building programme so as not to compete with the Defence Services.

In Appendix A to the Memorandum to the Estimates is a list of works deleted from the 1941 Estimates. If circumstances alter in 1942 so that the building programme can be resumed, the necessary provision could be voted and work started on these items without delay.

14. The existing social services in the Education and Medical and Health Departments are being fully maintained, but new school buildings and hospital wards will have to wait until the more urgent defence works have been completed.

15. I should be obliged if Your Lordship's approval of these Estimates could be conveyed to me by telegram.

16. The foregoing paragraphs of this despatch and the memorandum on the Estimates were written before the attack by Japan on Malaya on the 8th December, 1941. The effects of hostilities in Malaya on Government finance are likely to be a marked decline in revenue and a considerable increase in expenditure. The Colony has large reserves and I can think of no better way of spending these reserves than in using all its strength and resources in its own defence.

I have the honour to be,

My Lord,

Your Lordship's most obedient,

humble servant,

GOVERNOR.

===== Page 61 =====
STRAITS SETTLEMENTS

MEMORANDUM ON THE 1942 ESTIMATES OF REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE

FINANCIAL POSITION - GENERAL

On January 1st, 1941, the Colony's General Revenue Balance amounted to just over $72.62 million, of which approximately $53.5 million were liquid. The budget for the current year showed an estimated expenditure of $60,503,398 and an estimated revenue of $47,158,204, with a deficit, therefore, of $13,345,194. It is now expected that the revenue for 1941 will reach $64.47 million, owing to the adoption of War Tax and additional war duties. As the whole of the receipts from war duties is remitted to the Imperial Government, as a contribution towards the cost of the war, there will be a corresponding increase on the expenditure side. Other expenditure not provided for in the 1941 estimates includes $656,000 for the transfer to a new site of the Paya Lebar wireless transmitting station, nearly $1,850,000 for Air Raid and Bombardment Precautions, $109,840 for a rice storage godown at Penang, $199,540 for the new War Tax Department, and $136,000 for the Medical Auxiliary Service.

===== Page 62 =====
The latest revised estimate of 1941 expenditure is $66.25 millions and the deficit for the year is expected to be $1.78 millions.

The General Revenue Balance on December 31st, 1941, should thus be about $70.84 millions.

The estimated War Revenue for 1942 is $25.86 millions, and the estimated War Expenditure is $21.38 millions. The excess of War Revenue over War Expenditure is thus $4.48 millions.

The estimated revenue (exclusive of war revenue) for 1942 is $39.22 millions, and the estimated expenditure (exclusive of war expenditure) is $44.49 millions. There is therefore an estimated excess of normal expenditure over normal revenue of $5.27 millions.

Figures of revenue from War Tax, and the cost of collection have been included in these estimates in anticipation of the renewal in 1942 of the War Tax Ordinance, 1941. These figures are based upon the 1941 rates in the present ordinance, although there should be an increase of approximately $5 millions in the revenue from this Tax on incomes as a result of the increased rates and the wider scope of the Tax in 1942.

===== Page 63 =====
STRAITS SETTLEMENTS
Assets and Liabilities 1941 and 1942 (Partly Estimated)

Liabilities | 1st January 1941 Actual | 1st January 1942 Estimated | Assets | 1st January 1941 Actual | 1st January 1942 Estimated
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---
DEPOSITS:-
Courts | 1,619,654.87 | 1,500,000.00 | CASH:-
Cash in Treasuries | 198,020.49 | 320,000.00 |
Cash in Banks | 6,112,534.42 | 5,849,209.00 |
Cash with Crown Agents | 28,835.25 | 30,000.00 |
Cash in Transit | 64,100.52 | 20,000.00 |
Joint Colonial Fund (Crown Agents) | 3,985,714.29 | 3,000,000.00 |
Fixed Deposits (Colony) | 4,400,000.00 | 2,800,000.00
Miscellaneous, Singapore (including Labuan and Christmas Island) | 9,050,890.99 | 17,720,000.00 |
Miscellaneous, Penang and Districts | 556,615.76 | 600,000.00 |
Miscellaneous, Malacca and Districts | 163,566.76 | 200,000.00 |
F.M.S. Agency | 29,401.71 | 35,000.00
Deposits by Insurance Companies as per contra | 3,750,000.00 | 3,950,000.00 |
Opium Revenue Replacement Reserve fund | 58,033,434.37 | 58,030,000.00 |
Drafts and Remittances | 72,627,889.98 | 70,849,209.00
General Revenue Balance | | |

SUSPENSE ACCOUNT MISCELLANEOUS | 3,330,391.99 | 4,300,000.00
INVESTMENTS HELD ON BEHALF OF INSURANCE COMPANIES, AS PER CONTRA | 3,750,000.00 | 3,950,000.00
INVESTMENTS, SURPLUS FUNDS:-
Sterling Securities | 45,408,992.16 | 43,000,000.00
Dollar and Rupee Securities | 818,362.05 | 1,000,000.00
INVESTMENTS, SPECIFIC FUNDS:-
Court | 702,787.35 | 710,000.00 |
Bankruptcy | 863,397.28 | 865,000.00 |
Miscellaneous Marine Fund | 699,762.42 | 700,000.00
Public Officers' Guarantee Fund | 99,133.00 | 103,000.00 |
Miscellaneous | 155,231.89 | 200,000.00
Carried forward | 70,617,263.11 | 66,847,209.00

Carried forward | 147,773,086.10 | 154,693,209.00 |

===== Page 64 =====
Liabilities

1st January 1941 Actual
1st January 1942 Estimated

Assets

Brought forward...
INVESTMENTS OPTION REVENUE REPLACEMENT RESERVE FUND
ADVANCES...
IMPRESTS...
Drafts and Remittances

LOANS:
Municipality, Singapore
Municipality, Malacca
Kelantan Government
Trengganu Government
Singapore Harbour Board
Penang Harbour Board
Mohammedan and Hindu Endowments Board, Penang
Tanglin School, Cameron Highlands
Penang Sports Club
S. S. War Service Land Grants Scheme
Salvation Army
St. Nicholas' Home, Penang
St. Kilda's School, Katong

1st January 1941 Actual
70,617,263.11
58,033,434.27
1,849,835.35
5,457.59
82,781.41
32,869.69
528,055.20
4,745,683.98
2,660,000.00
7,103,553.77
1,942,941.20
45,900.00
6,100.00
57,537.01
23,673.52
25,000.00
10,000.00
5,000.00
147,773,086.10
154,693,209.00

1st January 1942 Estimated
66,847,209.00
58,030,000.00
13,100,000.00
...
11,200.00
510,000.00
4,720,700.00
2,560,000.00
6,898,400.00
1,878,600.00
45,400.00
4,300.00
54,900.00
...
22,500.00
8,000.00
4,000.00

TOTAL...
147,773,086.10  154,693,209.00

===== Page 65 =====
[UNABLE TO SCRAPE]

===== Page 66 =====
WAR TIME BUDGET

In order to get a more accurate picture of the present war time budget, figures are given below which show the average annual revenue and expenditure during the ten years 1929-1938, the probable revenue and expenditure for 1941 based on the revised estimates, and the estimated revenue and expenditure for 1942, separated into two parts (a) war revenue and war expenditure and (b) normal revenue and expenditure after excluding war revenue and war expenditure. War revenue is the estimated yield from taxation imposed since the outbreak of the war and includes revenue from the War Tax Ordinance on the same scale as 1941, without prejudice to any decision which may be made by Legislative Council as to any war tax on incomes which may be imposed in 1942.

War expenditure according to the classification approved by Legislative Council, is expenditure incurred in the prosecution of the war and includes contributions to the Imperial Government for war purposes raised from certain War Duties and by the sale of War Savings Certificates. War expenditure also includes charges on account of the servicing of War Loans and War Savings Certificates issued to raise money for the prosecution of the present war.

Increases in normal expenditure due to increased prices since the commencement of the war, and cost of living allowances, have not been included in war expenditure.

Average Annual Revenue
(1929-1938)
$40,175,838

Average Annual Expenditure
(1929-1938)
$36,826,506

1941 Revised Estimated Revenue
$64,471,965

1941 Revised Estimated Expenditure
$66,250,646

1942 War Revenue
$25,859,747

1942 War Expenditure
$21,379,469

1942 Revenue (excluding War Revenue)
$39,217,773

1942 Expenditure (excluding War Expenditure)
$44,488,392

===== Page 67 =====
DETAILS OF ESTIMATED WAR REVENUE AND WAR EXPENDITURE 1942 ARE SHOWN ON PAGES 6 AND 7 OF THE PRINTED ESTIMATES.

The contributions to the Imperial Government, representing the estimated receipts from War Duties and the Sale of War Savings Certificates, are $5,086,820 and $6,000,000 respectively.

Expenditure on certain war departments is entirely Malayan in scope and a proportion of the estimated expenditure on these services will ultimately be recoverable from other Malayan Administrations. The basis of apportionment is still under discussion, but on the basis tentatively agreed to in 1940 (the Colony to bear 45%, the Federated Malay States 40%, Johore 10% and Kedah 5%) the amount recoverable would be $1,758,927, and this has been shown under war revenue, as a reimbursement of war expenditure.

REVENUE.

The following items of 1942 estimated revenue show a marked contrast to the original estimate for 1941:
CLASS I. - 2. LICENCES, EXCISE AND INTERNAL REVENUE:
The Opium Revenue shows an increase of $500,000. The revenue figure for Opium is the net revenue after deducting the purchases of raw opium which are estimated to cost $1,250,000 less in 1942 than in 1941.

Liquor duties show an increase of $364,000 due to the upward trend of receipts from Government and Estate Toddy Shops, while Tobacco duties show a decrease of $692,000 due to more untaxed locally-grown tobacco being used.

Receipts under the Pawnbrokers Ordinance show an increase of $143,992, due to higher rents being paid by Pawnbrokers.

War Duties show a net increase of $649,416 mainly on account of Estate Duty, Additional Graduated Rates and increases in Export Duty on Rubber, Import Duty on Fireworks, Import Duty on Playing Cards and Liquors, Additional Duty.

===== Page 68 =====
Additional War Duties amounting to $3,014,000 appear for the first time in the Estimates, together with War Tax on incomes $10,000,000.

CLASS II. - 3. FEES OF COURT OR OFFICE, PAYMENTS FOR SPECIFIC SERVICES, AND REIMBURSEMENTS IN AID:

Contribution by the Federated Malay States on account of Joint Services shows an increase of $242,938. Reimbursement from Currency Surplus Fund on account of joint unapportionable services and reimbursement from the Unfederated Malay States on account of certain Defence Offices show increases of $407,843 and $132,457 respectively. All these increases are due to increased provision for Defence and Emergency expenditure on account of the war.

CLASS III. - 4. POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS:

The increase of $2,000,000 from the Sale of War Savings Certificates is due to the decision to continue and extend the sale of these certificates. There are also increases of $180,000 under Telegrams, $60,000 under Telephones and $200,000 under Postal Receipts.

CLASS IV. - 5. RENTS ON GOVERNMENT PROPERTY:

Government Buildings let for profit show an increase of $392,041 mainly due to many buildings having reverted to Government on the expiration of the leases.

6. INTEREST:

There is a decrease of $170,000 under interest on Investments, and a decrease of $50,164 under Interest on Opium Purchase Money Outstanding.

CLASS V. - 7. MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS:

Miscellaneous shows an increase of $49,583 due chiefly to the increased sale of stores by the Public Works Department.

Overpayments Recovered show an increase of $218,080.

Royalty on Phosphate, Christmas Island, shows an increase of $70,472.

Share of Currency Profits shows an increase of $70,000.

===== Page 69 =====
EXPENDITURE.

Comparative figures for 1941 and 1942 are as under:

1941        1942        Increase or Decrease

Personal Emoluments............... 22,064,300  22,655,598  +591,298
Other Charges, Annually Recurrent.. 19,278,203  22,250,940  +2,972,737
Other Charges, Special Expenditure. 14,911,174 19,551,197  +4,640,023
Drainage and Irrigation, Extraordinary.. 289,040   237,910    -51,130
Public Works, Extraordinary........3,960,681   1,172,216  -2,788,465

The increase under Personal Emoluments is largely due to increased provision in Cost of Living Allowance, Pensions, to new appointments mostly in the Education, Immigration and Police Departments, and to normal increments under approved schemes.

A Schedule is attached showing the most important changes under Personal Emoluments.

The increase under Other Charges, Annually Recurrent, results partly from increased staffs, servicing of War Loans and War Savings Certificates and partly from higher costs on account of the war.

The increase under Other Charges, Special Expenditure is due amongst other causes to increases in War Expenditure on Defence Measures and increased contributions to the Imperial Government.

Details of the principal increases and decreases are as under:

1. CHARGE ON ACCOUNT OF THE PUBLIC DEBT.

A new War Loan (Ordinance No. 18 of 1941) for $10,000,000 was raised in 1941, the proceeds of which were remitted to the Imperial Government as a gift towards the prosecution of the war. Another War Savings Certificates Ordinance (No. 62 of 1941) was also passed, authorising the sale of another $10,000,000 worth of

===== Page 70 =====
Certificates. The proceeds of the sale of these certificates will also be remitted to the Imperial Government as a gift for the prosecution of the war. The servicing of the new War Loan and the new War Savings Certificates involve an increase of $2,345,333 in the annual Public Debt Charges which now total $4,762,000, and are all charges for the service of Loans and Savings Certificates issued since the commencement of the present war.

2. PENSIONS, RETIRED ALLOWANCES, GRATUITIES.

The increase of $126,876 under this Head is due chiefly to increased provision in the following items:

(a) Superannuation Allowances - increased by $91,300

(b) Pensions of Widows and Orphans - $15,200

(c) Commutation of Pensions to Officers who have exercised their option under the Pensions Ordinance - $20,000

5. MALAYAN CIVIL SERVICE.

The net decrease of $60,000 under this Head represents the salaries of certain officers employed in war-time departments now provided for in the respective expenditure votes under the head Miscellaneous Services. With regard to changes in the permanent establishment, the appointment of Magistrate and Harbour Master, M. in Class IV has been replaced by the new appointment of Deputy Collector of Land Revenue, M. in Class V. A new post of Second Assistant Protector of Chinese (Labour), S. in Class V has also been entered.

8. GENERAL CLERICAL SERVICE.

An increase of ten appointments in the Establishment with consequent regrading in accordance with the General Clerical Service Scheme accounts for the additional provision of $29,120.

9. COLONIAL SECRETARY, RESIDENT COUNCILLORS AND RESIDENT.

Expenditure on Telegrams has greatly increased on account of the war and it has been found necessary to increase the provision by $12,000.

===== Page 71 =====
10. SECRETARY TO HIGH COMMISSIONER.

For similar reasons there is an increase of $10,000 for Telegrams. (The whole of the expenditure under this Head is recoverable from the Unfederated Malay States).

17. CUSTOMS AND EXCISE.

The total decrease under this Head is $20,134. The estimated expenditure under all sub-heads has been pruned in the interest of wartime economy.

19. DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION, RECURRENT EXPENDITURE.

Owing to severe damage caused by flood recently, the rivers in Penang and Province Wellesley have become silted. It has therefore been found necessary to increase the provision in the vote Maintenance of Rivers, P.W. and P. by $10,000.

21. EDUCATION.

The increase of $62,934 under Personal Emoluments is due mainly to normal increments under approved schemes and to additional appointments of Teachers for Malay Vernacular Schools.

The decrease in Annually Recurrent and Special Expenditure is due to decrease in contribution to the Education Board.

The total net decrease under this Head is $107,818.

Details of the Education Board expenditure appear in Appendix G.

22. ESTATE DUTY OFFICE.

The net decrease under this Head is $5,543, which is accounted for mainly by the deletion of provision for the post of Registrar of Trade Marks. The duties of the appointment are being performed by a member of the Straits Settlements Civil Service.

26. IMMIGRATION AND PASSPORTS.

The increase of $42,255 under Personal Emoluments is due to additional staff required to operate two new launches and temporary staff for the enforcement of Currency Regulations. Previously launches were hired from the Master Attendant.

===== Page 72 =====
31. MARINE.

The increase of $196,173 under this Head is due to provision for the purchase of three new launches to replace the s.t. "Seagull", and s.l. "Kittiwake", the s.l. "Spartan" and the s.l. "Mars".

33. MEDICAL.

Personal Emoluments - There are several changes in titles of posts in the College of Medicine, otherwise the salaries and duties of the appointments are not affected. The total net decrease under this Head is $9,043 which is chiefly due to decrease in Special Expenditure including the contribution to the College of Medicine.

34. MEDICAL, HEALTH BRANCH.

The net decrease of $6,175 under this Head is chiefly due to reduced provision being entered under Special Expenditure.

36. MEDICAL, HOSPITALS AND DISPENSARIES.

Personal Emoluments - The increase of $59,808 is accounted for by normal increments and the transfer of provision for Servants of the Nursing Staff of the Mental Hospital, Singapore, from the Hospitals Board to the Establishment.

Other Charges, Annually Recurrent - There is an increase of $48,389 in Contribution to Hospitals Board and an increase of $2,615 in Contribution to Tan Tock Seng Hospital, due to higher prices resulting from the war and increased admission of patients.

Special Expenditure has been reduced to a minimum on account of the war, and the increase of $3,755 compared with 1941, is mainly due to the provision of $50,000 for the purchase of new Diagnostic X-Ray apparatus to replace old and worn-out equipment.

Details of the Hospitals Board expenditure appear in Appendix H of the Estimates.

37. MILITARY EXPENDITURE.

S.S.V.F. - Two new appointments of Permanent Staff Instructors have been entered. "Training and Equipment" is estimated to require $800,000 the same as in 1941.

===== Page 73 =====
R.N.V.R. - A total of $600,000 is now estimated to be required for the pay and allowances of the R.N.V.R. during 1942. The provision of $420,000 in 1941 has been found to be insufficient.

Volunteer Air Force - The provision for 1942 shows an increase of $20,000.

Civil Liability for the R.N.V.R. and V.A.F. is estimated to require $80,000. The Flying Training School provision shows a reduction of $68,000.

The R.N.V.R., Volunteer Air Force and Civil Liability expenditure are recoverable from the Malayan Currency Surplus Fund.

38. MISCELLANEOUS SERVICES.

Personal Emoluments - There is an increase of $24,756 in Contribution to Malayan Establishment Office, and the provision for Cost of Living Allowance for subordinates has been increased by $220,000 owing to the allowances having been increased to meet the higher cost of living.

Other Charges, Annually Recurrent - The increase of $663,559 is mainly due to provision for the Malayan portion of the running costs of the Malaya Broadcasting Corporation, part of which is recoverable from other Malayan Administrations. The apportionment between the Imperial and Malayan Governments is still under consideration.

A new item with provision of $27,000 has been entered to meet Crown Agents' Departmental Charges. These expenses in the past were charged to an advance account in the first instance.

Other Charges, Special Expenditure - Increased provision shown under Defence has had to be made in most items. The following are the comparative figures:

| DEFENCE                               | 1941 | 1942   | Increase or Decrease |
|-------------------------------------|------|--------|---------------------|
| Air Raid and Bombardment Precautions| ...  | ...    | ...                 |
| S.S.                                | ...  | 120,000| 534,727 + 414,727   |
| Censorship, S. and P.                | ...  | 700,000| 700,000             |
| Civil Liability Scheme               | ...  | 50,000 | 50,000              |
| Commissioner for Civil Defence, Malaya | ...| 4,000  | +4,000              |

===== Page 74 =====
DEFENCE

1941 1942 Increase or Decrease

Compulsory Service Registration ... 5,000 5,000 ...
Custodian of Enemy Property ... 2,000 2,000 ...
Department of Information ... 354,000 429,000 + 75,000
Department of Supply ... 50,000 + 50,000
Director of Man-Power ... 6,000 7,440 + 1,440
Emergency Measures, Miscellaneous ... 26,000 50,000 + 24,000
Engineering Stores Control ... 21,400 24,720 + 3,320
Food Controller, Malaya
(a) Headquarters ... 68,500 95,000 + 26,500
(b) Bonding Schemes ... 57,600 42,613 - 14,987
Food Control, S.S. ... 38,200 42,000 + 3,800
Foreign Exchange Control, S. and P. ... 147,400 222,120 + 74,720
Imports Control, S. and P. ... 59,850 68,778 + 8,928
Internment ... 680,000 545,000 - 135,000
Local Defence Corps:
(a) Commissioner's Office ... 54,000 107,000 + 53,000
(b) Corps Expenditure
Oil Control ... 9,000 50,000 + 41,000
Port Control, S. and P. ... 120,000 229,660 + 109,660
Secretary for Defence, Malaya ... 8,200 46,527 + 38,327
Shipping and Exports Control ... 66,000 110,000 + 44,000
War Tax Department ... 200,000 + 200,000

A token vote of $10,000 is entered for Medical Auxiliary Service, an important part in the Passive Defence organisation.

Further provision of $500,000 for Contribution to the Singapore Improvement Trust, being part of the $10,000,000 grant approved for Town Improvement Scheme, and $162,375 for Grant to Rural Board, P.W., being part of the $250,000 grant approved for Town Improvement, have been entered. Provision of $553,000 has been made to meet the Malayan portion of capital expenditure of the Malaya Broadcasting Corporation, part of which is recoverable from the other Malayan Administrations. The apportionment between the Malayan and Imperial Governments is still under consideration.

The contributions to the Imperial Government of the amounts raised by War Duties and War Savings Certificates are contra entries corresponding to the amounts entered in the Revenue estimates.

41. POLICE.

Personal Emoluments. - The increase of $26,492 is due to increases in personnel in all ranks from Asiatic Inspectors downwards to provide for defence and security work.

Other Charges, Annually Recurrent. - The increase of $6,760 is partly resulting from the increase in personnel and partly [POSSIBLY MISSING].

===== Page 75 =====
From the higher costs of materials and services on account of the war.

Other Charges, Special Expenditure have been reduced to a minimum on account of the war, and there is a decrease of $26,974 compared with 1941.

42. POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS.

There is an increase of $38,636 in Personal Emoluments. An increase in the Contribution to Headquarters Expenses accounts for $13,937; the Headquarters expenditure is apportioned on a revenue basis among the parties to the Malayan Postal Union Agreement. New appointments include one Assistant Controller of Telecommunications (Engineering) on the ordinary time scale for the Posts and Telegraphs Workshop. Increments of salary under approved schemes and twenty-eight new appointments to the subordinate staff necessitated by Telephone, Telegraph and Wireless Development account for over $21,000.

Other Charges, Annually Recurrent, show a net increase of $46,552. The main increases are in Commission for Money Order Services - an increase of $13,000 due to growing money order business with other countries - and in Telegraph Charges paid to Other Administrations, an increase of $155,000 on account of very heavy demands made upon the overseas telegraph services by the public owing to lack of regular mail services and delay in the services available. This has resulted in increased payments being made to the Cable Company as their share of the telegraph fees. The revenue under Telegrams has correspondingly increased.

Conveyance of mails shows a decrease of $49,800 due to the limited number of mail despatches as a result of the war.

Other Charges, Special Expenditure, show a total decrease of $173,530 including revotes amounting to $113,001.

43. PRINTING OFFICE.

Personal Emoluments are increased by $2,382 due to three additional appointments of Technical Assistants and normal increments under sanctioned schemes.

===== Page 76 =====
Other Charges, Annually Recurrent, show a decrease of $20,590 on account of decreased provision for Paper and Requisites.

Other Charges, Special Expenditure, no provision has been entered.

The total net decrease under this Head is $19,258.

44. PRISONS.

There is an increase of $12,623 in Other Charges, Annually Recurrent, as additional provision has been made under the Local Prison vote Rations owing to increased admissions and increased cost of foodstuffs.

45. PUBLIC WORKS.

The total net decrease of $21,988 under this Head is mainly due to reduced provision entered under Special Expenditure on grounds of economy.

46. PUBLIC WORKS, RECURRENT EXPENDITURE.

1941 Estimates.......................... 1,717,080
1942 Estimates.......................... 1,706,308
Decrease................................ 10,772

Singapore shows a decrease of 4,712
Malacca 500
Penang 1,550
Province Wellesley 3,060
Labuan 750
Christmas Island 200
10,772

47. PUBLIC WORKS EXTRAORDINARY.

1941 Estimates.......................... 3,960,681
1942 Estimates.......................... 1,172,216
Decrease............................... 2,788,465

The 1942 provision includes revotes amounting to $996,216. As the Public Works Department has been preoccupied this year with urgent defence work, and as there has been a serious shortage of building material, nearly all the items which appeared in the 1941 estimates, except those connected with defence measures or social services, have not been put in hand.

===== Page 77 =====
A list of these items appears as Appendix A, so that if, during the course of 1942, any change of circumstances should warrant it, the suspended building programme can be put in hand with the least possible delay.

48. STATISTICS.

The increase of $40,938 under this Head is due to the provision of $40,000 for the purchase of new Power Samas machinery.

50. SURVEY.

In connection with local defence it has been decided to make provision for Special Forecasting Stations as required by the R.A.F. The sum of $40,000 has been inserted for this purpose under Meteorological Branch.

A. Arthur Aloe
Acting Financial Secretary,
Straits Settlements
6th December, 1941.

===== Page 78 =====
APPENDIX A
Items excised from the 1941 Public Works Extraordinary Estimates.

1941 Estimates
Page Item Works and Buildings Estimated to be spent in 1941 Remarks

SINGAPORE

142 2 Reformatory - Quarters for 1st Asst. Supt. 8,000
" 3 Reformatory - Quarters for 3rd Asst. Supt. 4,500
" 4 Reformatory - Quarters for Cook 2,000
" 7 Opium Packing Plant - Conversion of Guards Quarters into married Quarters 1,400
" 8 Opium Packing Plant - Married Quarters for Guards 5,800
" 9 General Hospital - New Sisters Quarters 148,829
" 11 Ditto Dressers Quarters 97,500
" 13 Ditto Floor, Ward 7 3,250
" 14 Ditto Two Garages and Quarters 4,200
" 17 College of Medicine - Dept. of Anatomy - New Buildings 165,000
" 18 College of Medicine - Attendants' and Servants' Quarters 36,000
" 19 College of Medicine - Pathological Dept. Animal House 3,600
" 21 Kandang Kerbau Maternity Hospital - Accommodation for Sisters, Nurses and Midwives 50,000
" 22 Nelson Road Clinic - Attendant's Quarters 1,470
" 23 Sanitary Inspector's Quarters, Changi 8,500
" 25 Mental Hospital - Ward for chronic patients 43,500
" 26 Mental Hospital - Quarters for Attendants and Menial Staff 35,000
" 27 Mental Hospital - Verandah for Male Infirmary Block 3,000
" 28 Labrador Hill - Servants Quarters, Cadet Bungalow 4,500
" 29 Minor Works Foreseen 14,500

30 Police - Quarters, Paya Lebar 55,000
" 31 Do. Quarters, Woodlands 24,000
" 32 Do. Paya Lebar Police Station - Garage 1,000
" 34 Do. Inspectors' Quarters 150,000
143 1 Postal - Quarters, St. Michael's Road 31,800
" 2 Prisons - Drains, Pearl's Hill 1,700
" 3 Do. Changi Prison, Waterproof roof 2,700
" 4 Do. Changi Prison, Window shades To Quarters 1,700
" 9 Public Works - Quarters for Sub-Overseers and Labourers, Central Branch 104,000

Carried forward 1,012,449

Appendix T, Items 2-12, 14, 15, 16, 18-23, 25 & 27.

===== Page 79 =====
APPENDIX A - continued

Estimated to be spent in 1941

Works and Buildings

Brought forward ............................ 1,012,449

SINGAPORE - continued

Public Works - Filling at St. George's Road ............. 17,000
Ditto Reconstruction of Singapore River Walls ........... 30,000
Ditto Labourers' Quarters, St. George's Road, Marine Branch ............. 20,000
Ditto Machinery for Workshop, Kandang Kerbau ............. 5,000
Ditto Electricity supply to Government Holiday Bungalow, T. Paku ............. 2,700
Ditto Sea Wall, Telok Saga ..................... 2,500
Ditto Sea Wall, Pasir Panjang Park ..................... 2,400
Ditto Labourers' Quarters, Mental Hospital ................ 1,500
Ditto Labourers' Quarters, Changi Prison ................ 1,500
Ditto Roads and Drains, Ridley Park .................. 2,000
New Gan Eng Seng School ($260,000) .................... In abeyance
General Hospital - New Medical Wards and Teaching Clinic ($410,000) ........... Ditto
General Hospital - Quarters for Nurses ($421,000) ........ Ditto
Do. Students' Hostel ($500,000) .................. Ditto
Public Works - Roads and Subsidiary Drainage Beach Road Reclamation ($48,000) ........... Ditto
General Hospital - Lock-up Ward - Transfer of grids, etc. .......... Ditto
College of Medicine - New Buildings for Dept. of Anatomy ........... Ditto
Health - Offices, treatment and laboratory accommodation ........ Ditto

MALACCA

Excise - Examination Station, A. G., including Quarters for Assistant Supervisor and Revenue Officers and Garage .......... 29,000
Medical - Dressers' Quarters ..................... 32,500
Medical, Infant Welfare Centre - Women's and Children's dispensary ........ 41,000

Carried forward ............................ 1,241,549


===== Page 80 =====
APPENDIX A - continued

1941 Estimates

Page Item Works and Buildings Estimated to be spent in 1941 Remarks

144 Brought forward ... 1,241,549
1 Telok Kumbar, Kg. Java Girls' Schools - Latrines ... 1,790
2 Sungei Korok, Telok Kumbar Kg. Paya Girls' Schools - Kitchens and Laundries ... 4,000
3 Sanitary Inspector's Qrs. Bayan Lepas ... 8,900
4 Labourers' Qrs., Batu Ferringhi, Telok Bahang, Sungei Nibong, Tg. Tokong ... 26,600
5 Renewal of Electric Mains, P. Jerejak ... 3,000
6 Minor Works Foreseen ... 2,107
7 Qrs. for Postmen and Messengers, S. Pinang ... 16,000
8 Labourers' Qrs., Sepoy Lines Division ... 12,000
9 Investigation for New Water Supply, B. Pulau ... 2,500
10 Subordinate Officers' Quarters ... 45,000
11 Metalling of Roadway to Ayer Itam Agricultural Station ... 3,400
12 Tanjong Tokong Malay School - Annexe for 120 Children ... 14,400
13 One portable stone granulator Diesel driver ... 4,000
14 Alterations to Chinese Quarantine Camp, Green Lane ... 1,140

PROVINCE MELLESLEY.

145 Malay Girls' Schools, Sungei Bakap, Permatang Bertam, S. Rambai, Permatang To'Jaya, Kuala Prai - Kitchens ... 3,300
14 Malay School, Permatang Sintok - Filling of Swamp ... 2,500
14 Malay School, S. Dua and Pinang Tunggal - Expanded Metal Enclosure ... 1,550
15 Labourers' Qrs., Bukit Mertajam ... 10,200
16 Labourers' Quarters, Butterworth ... 12,300
17 Female Leper Settlement - Rat-Proof Store Ditto Meeting Room ... 1,400
18 Minor Works Foreseen ... 1,800
19 Water Supply - Preliminary Investigations ... 1,945
Total ... 1,426,381

===== Page 81 =====
Honourable Members of the Legislative Council,

I propose to follow the practice adopted in the last two years and to read only a portion of my Address.

The War is absorbing more and more of the energies of the world and is increasing daily in ferocity. Over the 2,000 mile front in Russia multitudes are being slaughtered, and we watch with admiration the magnificent resistance with which the Russian forces are meeting the invader. They are receiving from us all possible help. We watch, too, with equal admiration the skill and determination with which China continues to fight for her freedom, and it is a happy chance that the notable victory of her armies at Changsha should coincide with the thirtieth anniversary of the inauguration of the Republic. This is all the more significant, coming as it does after more than four years of war, and shows that China is united to-day as never before in her history. Help is coming rapidly to her too.

Great Britain is spending well over 3100 a second, and is prepared to spend more so that victory may be won. Our forces are at last becoming reasonably well equipped and the help which we are able to give to others is increasing with every month. We derive added confidence from the knowledge that the incalculable resources of the United States of America are being so freely and ungrudgingly placed at the disposal of our Allies and ourselves.

The days through which we are passing are critical but the future is bright with hope. The battle of the Atlantic is being won and the food position at home is good. We need not fear, but we must not relax. In the following pages I shall try to show a little of the war effort which Malaya is making, with special reference to the activities of the Colony.

Finance.

The financial year 1940 ended with a deficit of $10.2 million, created by gifts of 31 million sterling to the Imperial Government and 3,000 to the Lord Mayor's Air Raid Relief Fund.

===== Page 82 =====
And by expenditure of $533,000 on the embodiment and training of the Straits Settlements Volunteer Force and $481,000 on cost-of-living allowances. Several other considerable items of expenditure for which no provision was made in the Estimates were met from savings.

The approved estimates for 1941 showed an anticipated deficit of $13.3 million, but the revised deficit is only $1.78 million in spite of heavy and unforeseen expenditure on Passive Defence and other War Services. This improved position is mainly due to the adoption of the war tax on incomes and to additional war duties, but considerable savings have been effected in many heads of the Estimates.

Our balances on the 1st of January, 1942, are estimated to be $70.85 million as against $72.6 million a year ago. In addition, we have $58 million in the Opium Revenue Replacement Fund. The revenue for 1942 is estimated at $59.7 million and the expenditure at $58.2 million, so that we shall be budgeting for a small surplus even after certain necessary revotes have been included. All items which are unessential in war time have been excluded from the schedules of special expenditure, subject always to the policy of the Government which is to provide for its social services such as public health and education as much as can effectively be spent by a staff whose energies are for the most part engaged on war work. Our thanks are due to all those officers who during the past two difficult years have maintained the finances of the Colony on a sound basis.

The war tax on incomes is being collected smoothly and without friction. Several thousand assessments have been completed but the number of appeals to the Board of Commissioners has been only about half a dozen. The total revenue collected up to the 30th of September is just over $4.5 million and is well up to the estimate. The expenditure of the Department is well within the original estimate of 2 per cent of the total revenue to be collected.

===== Page 83 =====
Sales of war savings certificates for the first six months of the year were $2.3 million.

The increase in estate duty has to date produced some $750,000. This is, of course, an addition to the normal revenue from this form of taxation which is already $1.5 million against an estimate of just over $1.00 million for the whole year.

The Colony has given or undertaken to give a sum amounting to $71,252,700 by way of direct gifts and gifts of money raised by loans, war savings certificates and special taxation. To this must be added the considerable sums collected by private organizations and remitted to His Majesty's Government for various war purposes.

In the first year of the war the net sales of the Malayan Control to the Bank of England were U.S. $97.86 million. In the eleven months of the second year, i.e., up to the end of July 1941, our contribution in American dollars was just over 135 million. These figures are exclusive of the large quantities of U.S. dollars surrendered to the Bank of England directly by American banks to maintain their credits in registered sterling accounts which are used to finance, through London, Malayan shipments to America. During the first seven months of 1941 the imports into the United States from Malaya were valued at U.S. $201 million as against $146 million during the same period of 1940. Exports from America to Malaya during these periods were valued at U.S. $25.8 million in 1941 and U.S. $8.8 million in 1940. Malaya sells more to the United States than any other country in the world except Canada.

This, in a few words, represents a principal part of Malaya's contribution to the Empire's war offensive. It has not been made painlessly. Many have had to sacrifice their desires in order that Malaya should conserve her American dollars for Britain's war purchases, but we may rest assured that we

===== Page 84 =====
Have not suffered more than other countries of the Empire. The rules for the conservation of American exchange are Empire-wide in their application.

During the year, the Malayan Control has received the most effective and generous assistance from the Control in the Netherlands East Indies. The two Controls have the same objects in view, and by a happy co-operation, they have been able to ensure the substantial success of their efforts. I am glad also to record that a most cordial relationship has been established with American interests who appreciate that we only want their dollars in order to give them back and that freedom to us means just what it does to them.

In Penang and Province Wellesley, the weather was against the padi crop, but the Malacca harvest is expected to be good, and the total will be about the same as last year. The Agricultural Department is now experimenting in the cultivation of vegetables on padi land in the off-season, and the prospects are promising as it has been shown that from land so used a heavier crop of padi can be obtained.

The acreage under fresh vegetables and rice substitutes is steadily increasing, and the Department is calling for returns which will enable it to advise where crops such as tapioca may be planted on a considerable scale should the need arise. The Malay schools are giving great help. In Malacca, 13 additional acres have been planted up and every available part of the school's compounds is being utilised.

The local manufacture of cigarettes and cheroots from Malayan leaf is thriving, and several factories have been established. I regard the tobacco industry as valuable as giving a livelihood to a number of small holders and as meeting a very real need.

The rubber produced in the Colony during the first six months of the year is estimated at 287,000 tons as compared with 260,500 last year. 37 percent of this came from small holdings.

===== Page 85 =====
The Department is to be warmly congratulated on the production of the book "Vegetable Gardening in Malaya" which I am informed is having a ready sale.

The scheme for establishing a fresh meat reserve by the importation of Bali cattle is going well, and several thousand head are already in Malaya. Speaking generally, the climate and the grazing seem to suit them, but steps have already been taken to improve the grazing by ploughing up the land and planting selected grasses.

The war has naturally overshadowed the activities of the schools, but notable contributions to the war effort have been made by the trade schools in training mechanics and motor drivers, by all schools in cultivating vegetable gardens, in helping with salvage campaigns, giving to war funds by foregoing sports prizes, and in providing Air Raid Precaution and Medical Auxiliary Service depots and posts. Most members of school staffs are volunteers or members of one of the Passive Defence Services.

The Trade Schools, while continuing the three year courses in mechanical engineering, electrical and domestic engineering, also provided radio servicing courses for mechanics for the Royal Air Force and courses for driver mechanics for the Malay Regiment, Indian Army and the Straits Settlements Volunteer Force.

The enrolment in Government and aided English schools is 27,202; in private English schools 10,114; and there are 1,252 pupils in Singapore Government afternoon schools.

There are 174 Malay boys' schools and 51 Malay girls' schools with 28,061 pupils as compared with 27,941 in 1940.

The Malay Women's Training College at Malacca now in its sixth year continues to be an ever increasing force in the girls' schools. The war has prevented developments, but domestic science has made progress both in the College and in the Malacca Malay girls' schools.

I have already stated the determination of the Government

===== Page 86 =====
Not to allow the war to retard educational progress.

CO-OPERATION.

The war has affected the different types of cooperative societies in different ways.

The urban societies amongst salary earners were chiefly affected by the rising cost of living which made saving less easy and drove some members to withdraw in order to recover their savings.

The rural societies fared best, particularly the societies in Malacca which benefited from the high price of rubber.

Societies amongst Indian labourers show a slower rate of progress owing mainly to the mobility of labour. There was a fall in membership of 400 chiefly in Singapore where there was a large withdrawal of savings, but conditions in Penang and Malacca were more stable and the savings continued to increase. Events in Europe in the first half of 1940 caused some uneasiness and many enquiries were made as to the safety of savings, but confidence has now been restored. Loans increased and advances to purchase cattle and goats were freely given. While the membership fell slightly, the average gross saving per member increased from $42.5 to $48.3.

Officers of the Department when visiting societies take the opportunity of explaining the contents of the latest news bulletins and distributing copies to some of those who can read. In this way confidence is maintained and false rumours checked.

The number of Societies is 144 and the paid-up capital is $2.86 million, of which $2.58 million is invested. The number of members is 26,700.

FOOD CONTROL.

The work of the Food Control Department has grown in size and importance with the development of the war. I am glad to be able to repeat the assurance given last year that the stocks of various essential foods, whether held by Government or privately, are being maintained at a satisfactory level.

===== Page 87 =====
Conditioned and refrigerated storage has been built for reserves of perishable foodstuffs.

From the beginning of the year, the Food Controller became the sole importer of rice to ensure ample supplies for immediate consumption and as a war reserve. He has received close co-operation from merchants, and I thank them warmly for their help.

The prices of the following commodities are controlled: rice, bran, sugar, milk including infant and invalid foods, white flour, atta flour, meat, salt, bread, groceries and canned goods, cocoa, market produce, vegetables and poultry, firewood and charcoal, and gunny bags. The prices of market produce are fixed by local area supply officers, but all other maximum controlled prices are fixed by the Food Controller, Malaya, on the advice of expert Committees. Every effort is made to check profiteering, and recently Committees have been set up in each Settlement and State to study the question locally and to advise on steps that can be taken to deal with it; however, the public is very slow to co-operate.

The changes in the controlled prices of a few staple commodities between September 1939 and the end of May 1941 are:

- Sugar per kati (1 1/3 lbs): 7 cents to 7 1/2 cents
- White wheat flour per kati: 6 cents to 8 1/4 cents
- Empire Condensed milk per tin: 31 cents to 32 cents
- U.S.A. condensed milk per tin: 22 cents to 27 1/2 cents

The Rice Import Monopoly endeavors to work on average cost prices in determining its selling at the controlled prices. This has at times enabled rice to be sold in Malaya below replacement cost and has evened out the curve of rising prices. The prices of those qualities which are chiefly in demand, at the end of September 1941 as compared with those at the outbreak [POSSIBLY MISSING].

===== Page 88 =====
of war, were:

30th Sept. 1939
cents per gantang (8 lbs)

30th Sept. 1941
cents per gantang (8 lbs)

Thailand No.2 Ordinary 30 55½
S.Q. Meedone (Burma White) 29 42
Milchar No.1 (Burma parboiled) 29 39

The increased price of Thai rice is due to the high cost of purchase and it has brought about a reduction in the demand; Burma rice is now replacing it to an appreciable extent. It is possible that the price of Thai rice may fall when the new crop comes on the market, but in any event the retail price here is much less than would have been possible without control.

LABOUR.

The year has been singularly free from labour trouble amongst the Chinese, there being in Singapore almost a complete absence of strikes and in Penang no undue number. This is partly due to the fact that improved prosperity has enabled employers to grant increases of wages when asked, but also to a welcome change of view amongst artisans and labourers, especially those engaged directly or indirectly in defence services, who have felt that strikes would be wrong in the conditions that have obtained inasmuch as they would have been likely to impede the war effort not only of this Colony but of China as well. I am glad to be able to pay tribute to this attitude, and to the readiness of labourers to work long hours on defence work. They are making a real contribution to the fight for freedom.

I have already mentioned the control of food prices. Inevitably however there has been some increase in the cost of living, and all public authorities have continued to pay a high cost of living allowance, based on ascertained changes in the prices of foodstuffs, to all artisans and labourers. A number of private employers have done the same. In addition it has been agreed to pay a supplementary allowance which will vary

===== Page 89 =====
According to the ascertained changes in the cost of certain essential commodities other than foodstuffs.

The Trade Union Ordinance and the Industrial Courts Ordinance were brought into force on July 1st. The public must not think that this provides a panacea for all labour trouble or that rapid results are to be expected from it. Labour in the East has been gradually following Western models but difficulties will inevitably occur in the process of adapting itself to trade union methods. The legislation provides a framework on which much has to be built, and for this the co-operation and goodwill of employer and employee alike is necessary. But I am sure that these will be forthcoming and that in time Malaya will develop good leaders from among its labouring classes who will do for them what trade union officials have done for the British working man. All must remember, however, that the final agreement in any labour dispute must be based on a compromise between the parties; it is to achieve this that the Departments concerned work by methods of conciliation and mediation.

There has been ample employment for Indian labour owing to the high demand for rubber, to replanting on estates, and to increased demands by Service Departments. It is satisfactory that local sources of supply have not only made good the normal wastage in labour but have actually increased the amount available.

It is proposed to give assistance to employers who wish to recruit labour from the Netherlands East Indies by extending, by law, the scope of the Immigration Fund.

A very interesting and constructive proposal has been made that district or estate welfare committees composed of senior and subordinate members of estate staffs and their wives should be formed with the object of giving practical instruction to labourers and their dependants in matters of nutrition, hygiene and better living generally. Such committees would certainly be of considerable value to the community.

P.T.O.

===== Page 90 =====
The public health of the Colony has remained good. There have been no outbreaks of epidemic disease, and the incidence of malaria has been much less than during the past three years.

Preparations for dealing with civilian casualties, if war should come to Malaya, are well advanced. Materials are now in position to provide for an expansion of the hospitals; first aid posts have been established and equipped, transport units organised, and a large and keen voluntary staff has been enrolled and is steadily improving in efficiency.

The Medical Auxiliary Service in the Colony now numbers nearly 3,000 men and women.

The blood transfusion unit of the Medical Auxiliary Service has on its lists the names of over three thousand voluntary donors, civilians who have offered to give their blood when required. Meanwhile this unit has in co-operation with the Fighting Services taken over the work of grouping all members of the forces, and of building up a blood plasma "bank" which will be available for Service members and civilians. This is a most valuable unit and it deserves the highest praise.

During the two years of war the Censorship has assumed many new responsibilities and has had to develop in some unexpected directions. It is generally recognised that this Department (which should perhaps more properly be described as the Malayan Branch of the Imperial Censorship) is one of the most important links in the Empire Censorship chain.

The Postal Censorship in Singapore handles over 25,000 letters a day and the Telegraph Censorship over 98,000 telegrams a month. The telegraph traffic has increased by more than 50% since the beginning of the war owing to the dislocation and delay to which postal communications are now generally subject as a result of war conditions. Special attention continues to be paid to the need for passing trade and

===== Page 91 =====
Business communications with the minimum of avoidable delay and it costs money to do this.

The whole organization has to be kept fluid to meet political and war developments in all parts of the world. It has to be ready at all times to meet any situation and any calls made upon it. In spite of increased responsibilities, however, the staff figures have remained fairly constant and are at the moment below the "peak" figures which were reached in the early summer of 1940. That this is so is primarily due to the care with which expenditure is scrutinized and to the fact that, as the Department has been able to settle down, it has been possible to dispense with the services of some of the officers who were necessary in the early days. The actual staff position at the moment is as follows:

Total number of Europeans employed in Singapore and Penang:
Men: 37
Women: 129

Total local-born staff employed in Singapore and Penang: 138

Of this total of 304, just over 10% are employed on a part-time basis.

PUBLICITY. During the year, the machinery for war publicity in Malaya has been greatly enlarged and developed, and the Department of Information and Publicity today need fear comparison with no other organisation of the kind in the British Colonial Empire. The Department is regularly producing news bulletins and commentaries in eight languages or scripts, namely, English, Malay, Chinese, Tamil, Malayalam, Gurmukhi, Urdu, and romanized Urdu. Every penghulu throughout the Peninsula receives a daily bulletin printed in Jawi, thus enabling him to be the local source of authentic news and to combat the circulation of wild rumours.

The schools are not forgotten. For the first time in the history of Malaya, special "Children's Newspapers" are

===== Page 92 =====
Issued fortnightly in English, Malay, Chinese and Tamil. Most of this work is done with the co-operation of the Education Department.

The total circulation of all publications of the Department is now about 160,000 copies a month. Apart from daily, weekly, fortnightly and monthly publications, there has been a great increase in the local production of pamphlets and posters. Altogether the Department is now sending out about two and a half million pieces of printed matter a year, including material received from London, Cairo, Delhi, Bombay, Hong Kong and other centres. Three mobile vans stocked with reading and pictorial matter, and equipped with cinema apparatus, are visiting villages, mines and estates, and the "Fight for Freedom" Exhibition is also touring the Peninsula.

The main functions of the Department are to disseminate reliable news, to assist in maintaining a healthy and well-informed public opinion, and to further all forms of the Malayan war effort by means of the technique of modern publicity. This organization is entirely novel in Malaya as a part of the machinery of government, and experience is being gained which may be very valuable when we return to the problem of peace-time colonial policy and administration.

Ever since I have been in Malaya there has been a public demand for an up-to-date broadcasting station. This demand was partially met, as time went on, by the British Malaya Broadcasting Corporation (created to serve Singapore and southern Johore) and by the stations at Penang and Kuala Lumpur. Just before war broke out, His Majesty's Government decided to set up an Imperial broadcasting station in Malaya which would be able to serve not merely the Far East but even more distant countries. The opportunity was then taken to combine the needs of Great Britain with those of Malaya, and the cost, both capital and recurrent, is to be met by His Majesty's Government and Malaya in proportion.

===== Page 93 =====
There is to be an 18-hour service of programmes which will be sent out by four transmitters in twenty-two languages.

I have seen certain criticisms of the cost of the scheme but in my opinion they are not well-founded. It is obvious that a station such as this must be in a position to give a first-class performance, and all recommendations for staffing it have been carefully examined by the British Broadcasting Corporation and the Ministry of Information in London. It may be added that but for the accidents of war the station would now be open.

The policy of the Malaya Broadcasting Corporation, as it is called, is supervised by a Board of Governors on which the Ministry of Information is represented. In due time it is proposed to set up Committees to deal with local programmes.

PUBLIC WORKS. The general effect of the war has been to reduce the supplies of essential materials while increasing costs. The civil programme of the Department was drastically cut down so that all available resources in staff, plant, and material might be utilised on urgent measures of defence, and the number of works which have had to be carried out simultaneously has taxed very highly the capacity of the Department, of contracting firms, and indeed of the labour resources of the country as a whole.

The programme of defence works undertaken by the Department in the Colony is estimated to cost some $3 million. Much of it is of course on behalf of the fighting Services with funds provided by the Imperial Government.

The Directorate of Engineering Stores is administered by the Director of Public Works and covers the whole of Malaya. It controls the storage, movement, and use of all the principal articles of engineering stores. To give a few instances, this includes some 82,000 tons of semi-manufactured iron and steel, 260,000 tons of cement and 10,000 tons of pig iron annually.

The Directorate advises also on the importation of all engineering and building stores in Class III of the Malayan Import and Export.

===== Page 94 =====
List: This comprises goods cataloged under about 120 headings. Imported goods are controlled as to ports of entry, eventual distribution, and selling price.

An Inter-Services Works Priority Committee, presided over by the Director of Public Works, is charged with determining the relative priority of constructional works for the Admiralty, the War Department, the Air Ministry, and all civil authorities, on a Malayan basis. This involves the consideration of the distribution of available resources in staff, labour, plant, and material.

The Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve, now numbering 720, continues to carry out its duties with admirable efficiency. The hours are long and the work is arduous and responsible, but a spirit of high resolve animates all ranks, and the unit is one of which Malaya may well be proud.

The training of the Straits Settlements Volunteer Corps now consists of two months continuous training and 120 hours non-continuous training, the former being carried out in camp. The periods of embodiment have proved invaluable in training administrative personnel in their duties as well as all ranks in operating as groups in their special war roles. Continuity of training has in this way been assured and the improvement in the physical fitness of the Volunteers has been notable.

An excellent spirit has been shown by all ranks and the thanks of the Colony are due to them for their fine response to the stern needs of the times. Their release for training has made its call, too, upon their employers who, by their ungrudging co-operation and readiness to share additional burdens, have made their own commendable contribution to the war effort.

The activities of this Force are twofold. By means of the Government Flying Training School, cadets of the Malayan Volunteer Air Force are trained as pilots for transfer to the Royal Air Force overseas; and, on the other hand, a Force of [POSSIBLY MISSING]

===== Page 95 =====
Five flights are made available for assistance in Malayan defence.

During the first year, 55 pilots and 6 aircrew passed through the Flying Training School and proceeded overseas. A number are already in action, and the casualties to date are 4 killed and one wounded. Thanks to the free services of civilian instructors and to the absence of any overhead expenses, the cost of this School has been about a quarter of the normal cost, while the high standard of training has been proved by the very remarkable successes in their examinations overseas achieved by the graduates from the School.

The Malayan Volunteer Air Force for Malayan defence has a present strength of 23 officers and 136 other ranks. Six "continuous training" camps have been held in Singapore, as a result of which 54 pilots have qualified for the Volunteer Air Force "Wings" badge. All flights are continually engaged in a variety of work such as communication flights and day and night co-operation with the Services and A.R.P. units. Two pilots have been killed and one injured. The discipline, training, and morale of the Force is of a very high order, and great credit is due to the Flying Club Committees and others for their enthusiastic help in creating, equipping, training, and operating it.

The Passive Defence Services, comprising the Corps of Air Raid Wardens, the Medical Auxiliary Service, and the Auxiliary Fire Service are distributed as follows:

| Location  | Air Raid Wardens | Medical Auxiliary Service | Auxiliary Fire Service |
|-----------|------------------|--------------------------|------------------------|
| Singapore | 4,300            | 2,315                    | 504                    |
| Penang    | 1,342            | 362                      | 381                    |
| Malacca   | 375              | 138                      | 45                     |

The Local Defence Corps number 470 in Singapore, 209 in Penang, and 289 in Malacca. The Volunteer Police Reserve in Singapore grows steadily and now has a strength of 302.

===== Page 96 =====
There are other services connected with the defence of the Colony which are manned by civilians and Government Departments, and big business houses had established fire-fighting units before compulsory fire-watching was introduced. All these organisations display an energy and keenness which are producing a steadily mounting efficiency, and the public spirit by which this result is being won is warmly appreciated.

SHIPBUILDING. With the ready co-operation of all concerned, it has been possible to make a very important addition to the list of Malaya's war activities. On behalf of the Admiralty and others, vessels to the value of $10 million are to be constructed and the work is already well in hand. The vessels include anti-submarine craft, mine-sweepers, mooring vessels, tugs, and small boats. Twenty-two Marine Diesel 525 h.p. engines ("Detac") for the Admiralty are also being made locally, and three 1,000 h.p. steam engines complete with all auxiliaries for the Royal Indian Navy.

As an example of the drain on our manpower caused by the war, I record that in the Settlement of Malacca the Alor Gajah district is in charge of a Chinese and the Jasin district is in charge of a Eurasian, both of whom are members of the Straits Settlements Civil Service, while the Forestry Department in the Settlement is administered by a Malay.

The war effort of the Straits Settlements - and indeed of Malaya as a whole - gives cause for legitimate pride and should inspire us all to redoubled efforts in the future. Much remains to be done and, with the continued co-operation of all classes, much will be done.

Honourable Members, I pray that your deliberations may be to the lasting benefit of this Colony.

===== Page 97 =====
Enclosure No. 4 to Surplus Despatch 189 of 17 December 1941.

===== Page 98 =====
Schedule showing the more Important Changes under Personal Emoluments in the 1942 Estimates.

| Page | Item | Title of appointment                              | Salary scale p.a.         | Nature of Change                                                                                                                                     | Remarks                                         |
|------|------|--------------------------------------------------|---------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| 22   | 21   | Magistrate & Harbour Master, M.                   | Class IV M.C.S.           | Appointment replaced by new post of "Deputy Collector of Land Revenue, M" in Class V owing to administrative rearrangement of duties.           | Appointed by S.ofS. in his S.S. Despatch No.19 of 28.1.41.  |
| 22   | 23   | Second Assistant Protector of Chinese (Labour), S.| Class V M.C.S.          | New appointment. Additional officer required to permit of more time being devoted to the investigation of problems affecting Chinese labour generally.| Appointed by S.ofS. vide his Saving telegram No.35 of 15.9.41. |
| 22   | 24   | Deputy Collector of Land Revenue, M.               | Class V M.C.S.           | New appointment in place of "Magistrate and Harbour Master, M" in Class IV, see item 21 above.                                                     | Appointed by S.ofS. in his S.S. Dep. No. 19 of 28.1.41.    |
| 25   | 4    | Supernumerary Clerk, C.S.O.                         | $3300-180A-4560          | One Supernumerary appointment in place of Chief Copying Clerk abolished. Holder employed as Personal Assistant to the Registrar-General of Statistics.|                                                 |
| 39   | 9    | Inspectors of Chinese Schools                       | $2400-180A-4200 / 180A-6000 | Change of title. Formerly "Chinese Inspectors of Schools".                                                                                         |                                                 |
| 39   | 36   | Teacher, Intermediate Grade, S.                    | $2400-240A-5040          | New appointment. Post specially created for Mr. Lim Tay Boh who holds higher qualifications, i.e. B.A. (Cantab) Honours and B.A. (London).           |                                                 |

===== Page 99 =====
Page Item Title of appointment Salary scale p.a. Nature of Change Remarks.

43 1 Commissioner of Estate Duties and Registrar of Companies $9600-360A-11400-600A-12000 Revised salary scale. Formerly on scale $9600-360A-11400. Approved by S. of S. in his S.S. Saving Telegram No. 42 of 24.10.41.

58 6 Engineer $4800-300A-7200 Revised salary scale. Post now held by an officer on the Malayan Establishment. Formerly on scale $4200-300A-5400. Approved by S. of S. in S.S. Despatch No. 107 of 24.5.41.

63 30 Tutor in Bacteriology $3000-120A-3240/bar/3360-180A-4080/bar/4380-180A-6000-240A-7200 Change of title. Formerly "Deputy Medical Officer, Bacteriology".

63 31 Tutors in Biology $3000-120A-3240/bar/3360-180A-4080/bar/4380-180A-6000-240A-7200 Change of title. Formerly "Deputy Medical Officer, Biology" and "Assistant in Biology".

63 32 Tutors in Bio-Chemistry -do- Change of title. Formerly "Deputy Medical Officer, Bio-Chemistry" and "Assistant in Bio-Chemistry".

63 33 Tutor in Pathology -do- Change of title. Formerly "Deputy Medical Officer, Pathology".

64 1 Tutors in Physiology -do- Change of title. Formerly "Assistants in Physiology".

===== Page 100 =====
| Page | Item | Title of appointment | Salary scale p.e. | Nature of Change | Remarks |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| 64 | 2 | Tutors in Anatomy | Head 33 - Medical. $3000-120A-3240/bar/3360-180A-4080/bar/4380-180A-6000-240A-7200. | Change of title. Formerly "Assistants in Anatomy" | |
| 64 | 3 | Tutors in Medicine | -do- | Change of title. Formerly "Medical Officers (locally appointed) Grade I Medical Clinic, Tan Tock Seng Hospital" and "Assistant to Associate Professor of Medicine". | |
| 64 | 4 | Tutors in Surgery | -do- | Change of title. Formerly "Senior Surgical Tutors" and "Junior Surgical Tutors". | |
| 64 | 5 | Assistant Curator, Keith Museum and part time Tutor in Bacteriology | -do- | Change of title. Formerly "Assistant Curator, Keith Museum and part time Assistant in Bacteriology". | |
| 64 | 6 | Tutors in Dental Surgery | -do- | Change of title. Formerly "Tutors in Dental Surgery and Dental Officers" | |
| 70 | 4 | Physician General Hospital, Singapore. | $10200-360A-12000 | Change of title. Formerly "Physician and Registrar, General Hospital, Singapore." | Governor's S.S. Despatch No. 158 of 18.10.40 |
| 75 | 1 | Confidential Assistant to the Secretary for Defence, Malaysia. | $3240-120A-3480/bar/3600-120A-4200/bar/120A-4600-240A-6000. | Provision for salary provided under Miscellaneous Services. Other Charges Special Expenditure, Secretary for Defence, Malaya. | |

===== Page 101 =====
| Page | Item | Title of appointment | Salary Scale p.a. | Nature of Change | Remarks |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| 80 | 4 | Assistant Superintendents | Head 41 - Police. | $4800-300A-6900/7200-300A-9600 | Three additional appointments in accordance with the scheme of abolition of European Inspectors. |
| 80 | 7 | Chief Inspectors and Inspectors | $3600-120A-4200/4500-180A-5400/5640-240A-6600 | Decrease of five. |
| 85 | 1 | Assistant Controllers of Telecommunications (Engineering) | Head 42 - Posts & Telegraphs. | $4800-300A-7200/300A-9600 | One additional appointment due to increase of duties. |
| 85 | 11 | Assistant Controllers of Posts | $4800-300A-7200/300A-9600 | One appointment abolished | Approved by S. of S. in his F.M.S. & S.S. Confidential Despatch No. 916 of 29.4.41. |
| 93 | 4 | Deputy Government Architect | Head 45 - Public Works. | $10200 | Change of title. Formerly "Senior Assistant Architect" |
| 93 | 7 | Architects and Assistant Architects. | $4800-300A-9600 | Change of title. Formerly "Assistant Architects". |
| 95 | 3 | Electrical Inspector | $6000-300A-6600 | Post abolished. |
| 107 | 11 | Lady Supervisor | Head 48 - Statistics. | $4800 fixed salary | New salary is personal to present holder. Formerly on $3900-120A-4500. |

===== Page 102 =====
| Page | Item | Title of Appointment             | Salary Scale p.a.        | Nature of Change                                                                 | Remarks                                            |
|------|------|---------------------------------|--------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| 112  | 1    | Accountant General              | Head 52 - Treasury       | New salary is personal to present holder. Formerly on scale $10,200-300A-11,400 | Approved by S. of S. vide his M.E.O. Telegram No. 73 of 19.5.41. |
| 112  | 2    | Accountants (Corps of Accountants) | $4,800-300A-9,600         | One additional temporary appointment on scale $6,000-300A-6,600 in connection with additional duties undertaken by the Corps of Accountants. Present holder is on agreement. |                                                    |

===== Page 103 =====
FROM STRAITS SETTLEMENTS

FROM: Governor (Sir S. Thomas)
TO: Secretary of State for the Colonies.

D. 13th December, 1941. 14.41 hrs. (local time)
R. 14th December, 1941. 06.10 hrs. (London time)

No. 963 S.S.

Estimates approved for 1942 by the Legislative Council as follows. Begins:

War revenue $25,859,747
War expenditure $21,379,469
Revenue (excludes war revenue) $39,217,773
Expenditure (excludes war expenditure) $44,488,392

2. Since the above estimates were passed, the Legislative Council has approved War Tax (No.2) Ordinance with increased taxation on income yielding an increase in estimated revenue of $5,000,000 not included in the above revenue estimate.

===== Page 104 =====
The image provided is too blurry and low-resolution to accurately recognize any text. Therefore, no text can be extracted from this image.

===== Page 105 =====
Estimates for 1942. 1941-1942. MS Records of the British Colonial Office CO 273/666/9. The National Archives (Kew, United Kingdom). State Papers Online Colonial, link.gale.com/apps/doc/NIUBLL270365563/SPOC?u=nuslib&sid=bookmark-SPOC&xid=26c6e014. Accessed 1 Mar. 2026.

Gale Document Number: GALE!NIUBLL270365563

