===== Page 1 =====
CLOSED UNTIL C.O.273/6/6
50823/6/6
1991 1946

No. 50823/6/6

SUBJECT
Future Policy
Future Constitution - Malaya.
Constitutional Instruments

Previous

Subsequent

C.O.273/675/N4

FILE C
197406 2m 5j65 LP2791

===== Page 2 =====
1997

===== Page 3 =====
Mr Robert Wray.
Opposite are the following preliminary drafts:

1. (1) The Straits Settlements Order in Council, 1946;
2. (2) The Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946;
3. (3) Comparative Table & Notes for (2).

2. There are a number of points for discussion and some of the provisions are in the nature of a "cork-shy." The second schedule is not yet ready.
3. Royal Instructions for the Malayan Union will follow very shortly.

K. K. O'Connor
22. 1. 46.

===== Page 4 =====
Mr. ROBERTS-WRAY
Mr. PASKIN

Mr. Melville mentioned to me on the phone last night that the Straits Settlements Repeal Bill would be likely to go through its remaining Parliamentary stages during the next three weeks and that he had specially arranged for Royal Assent to be given on the 26th of March. He suggested that we should arrange for a special meeting of the Privy Council to be convened on that date with a view to their passing the various Orders in Council, etc., relating to the establishment of Civil Government in the Malayan Union and Singapore.

If Civil Government is to be restored, as I understand, on the 1st of April next, this is running matters very close, and although such a Council can dispose of the Orders in Council, there will, I assume, be other constitutional documents such as Letters Patent and Royal Instructions to deal with. These will involve further delay as the former has to pass under the Great Seal and some days are required for this to be done. Moreover, the King's signature is required in connection with both documents and that of the Secretary of State with the Letters Patent.

I have drafted a letter to Mr. Leadbitter of the Privy Council Office which, perhaps, Mr. Roberts-Wray would sign. I would point out, however, that it will be necessary for us to have all the documents well before the 26th of March in order that we may get them printed in the form required for submission to the Privy Council.

===== Page 5 =====
I also assume that the various instruments now being prepared will include the commissions of appointment necessary. These also require the signature of the King and the Secretary of State.

Mr Thompson
Phan Duck
Mode of address

I confirm that the document has not been sent to the recipient; we will continue to the address as soon as possible.

To Sir Ernest Landbiter 6/3/46

===== Page 6 =====
5 To: Blend of the Lion in Lebanon - 23/3/46
6 - do -
7 - do -
8 - do -
9 To: P.C.O - 26/3/46
10 To: Lin Kw. Heartbutter - 26/3/46
11 P.C.O. (Ryf 9) - Rein 27/3/46
(Trans 5 Onin G.)
12 Sarin Settlements (Reprint) Onin G. 1946.
13 Singapore Colony Onin G. 1946.
14 Singapore Instructions 27.3.46.
15 Malayan Union Onin G. 1946.
16 Malayan Union Instructions 27.3.46.
17 To: BMA (M) Tel no. 876 - 28/46
18 To: - do - - do - 875 - 28/46
19 To: - do - - do - 877 - 28/46

===== Page 7 =====
To: Singapore, no. 9.

To: Malayan Union, no. 9.

The draft of no. 5-21 am on f. 20 herein.

This bill may not be putley.

Aotbunk

31/7/67

===== Page 8 =====
April, 1946.

Sir,

I have the honour to transmit to you one sealed and six plain copies of each of the following Instruments:

(a) The Straits Settlements (Repeal) Order in Council, 1946;

(b) The Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946;

(c) The Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946;

(d) Instructions dated the 27th of March, 1946, passed under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet to the Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Malayan Union; and

(e) A Dormant Commission dated the 27th of March, 1946, passed under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet appointing the Chief Secretary, or the person for the time being lawfully exercising the functions of Chief Secretary, to administer the Government of the Malayan Union in certain events.

2. I am also sending under separate cover Letters Patent dated the 27th of March, 1946, passed under the Great Seal of the Realm, appointing Mr. Harold Curwen Willan to the Office of Chief Justice of the Malayan Union, and Mr. Louis Victor Joseph Laville to the Office of Judge of the Supreme Court of the Malayan Union, and to request that you will be good enough to arrange for these Letters Patent to be delivered to Mr. Willan and Mr. Laville respectively.

3. I also take the opportunity of enclosing, for your information, six plain copies of the Instructions dated the 27th of March, 1946, passed under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet to the Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Colony of Singapore, together with three copies, for local record, of the Commission dated the 27th of March, 1946, passed under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet appointing you to the Office of Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Malayan Union.

4. Copies of the Instruments referred to at (a), (b), (c) and (d) in paragraph 1 of this despatch are also being sent to the Governor of the Colony of Singapore.

5. I have to request that you will acknowledge the receipt of this despatch and its enclosures.

I have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your most obedient,

humble Servant,

(agd) G. H. Hall

===== Page 9 =====
I have the honour to transmit to you one sealed and six plain copies of each of the following Instruments:

(a) The Straits Settlements (Repeal) Order in Council, 1946;

(b) The Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946;

(c) The Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946;

(d) Instructions dated the 27th of March, 1946, passed under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet to the Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Colony of Singapore; and

(e) A Dormant Commission dated the 27th of March, 1946, passed under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet appointing the Colonial Secretary, or the person for the time being lawfully exercising the functions of Colonial Secretary, to administer the Government of the Colony of Singapore in certain events.

2. I am also sending under separate cover Letters Patent dated the 27th of March, 1946, passed under the Great Seal of the Realm, appointing Mr. Charles Murray Murray-Aynsley to the Office of Chief Justice of the Colony of Singapore, and Mr. Cecil William Victor Carey to the Office of Judge of the Supreme Court of the Colony of Singapore, and to request that you will be good enough to arrange for these Letters Patent to be delivered to Mr. Murray-Aynsley and Mr. Carey respectively.

3. I also take the opportunity of enclosing, for your information, six plain copies of the Instructions dated the 27th of March, 1946, passed under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet to the Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Malayan Union, together with three copies, for local record, of the Commission dated the 27th of March, 1946, passed under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet appointing you to the Office of Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Colony of Singapore.

4. Copies of the Instruments referred to at (a), (b), (c) and (d) in paragraph 1 of this despatch are also being sent to the Governor of the Malayan Union.

5. I have to request that you will acknowledge the receipt of this despatch and its enclosures.

I have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your most obedient,

humble Servant,

(agd) J. H. Hall

GOVERNOR,

F.C. GIMSON, BSQ., C.M.G.,
etc. etc. etc.

===== Page 10 =====
TO B.M.A. (M) KUALA LUMPUR

FROM S. OF S., COLONIES.

Sent 28th March, 1946. 13.45 hrs.
(To War Office for onward transmission)

Addressed to B.M.A. (M) Kuala Lumpur.
Repeated to Singapore Division.

Commissions of Governors Malayan Union and Singapore have been signed by His Majesty.

In order that these documents may be available to be read at inauguration ceremonies, copies are being brought by respective Governors.

On arrival these copies should be completed by making the following insertions:

(a) At headings insert "George R.I."

(b) At ends between words "this" and "day" insert "twenty-seventh".

(c) At footings insert "G.H. Hall".

===== Page 11 =====
OUTWARD TELEGRAM

Unclassified

C.O. No. 875

TO B.M.A.(M) KUALA LUMPUR

FROM S. OF S., COLONIES.

Sent 28th March, 1946 13.45 hrs.
(To War Office for onward transmission)

IMMEDIATE.

Addressed to B.M.A.(M) Kuala Lumpur.
Repeated to Singapore Division.

Letters patent under Great Seal have now been passed appointing

1. Willan, Chief Justice,
Malayan Union.

2. Murray-Aynaley, Chief Justice,
Singapore.

3. Laville, Judge,
Malayan Union.

4. Carey, Judge,
Singapore.

These officers are therefore qualified to administer oaths to Governors as required by respective Orders in Council.

===== Page 12 =====
The image provided is too blurry and low-resolution to accurately recognize any text. It appears to be a blank or partially obscured document with a brown paper-like cover.

===== Page 13 =====
TO B.M.A.(M) KUALA LUMPUR

FROM S. OF S., COLONIES.

Sent 28th March, 1946. 13.45 hrs.
(To War Office for onward transmission)

Addressed to B.M.A.(M) Kuala Lumpur.
Repeated to Singapore Division.

The three Orders in Council have now issued, and the Royal Instructions have been approved and signed by His Majesty.

In the headings of each of the three Orders in Council insert after the word "at" the words "Buckingham Palace"; between the words "The" and "day" insert "27th" (repeat "27th"), and between the word "of" and "1946" insert "March".

After last sections of each of the three Orders in Council insert "E.C.E. Leadbitter".

In the headings of the Malayan Union and Singapore Colony Instructions insert "George R.I." and after the word "Dated" insert "27th March".

At the footings of each between the words "this" and "day" insert "27th" (repeat "27th").

===== Page 14 =====
MALAYAN UNION
INSTRUCTIONS passed under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet to the Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Malayan Union.

Dated 27th March, 1946. GEORGE R.I

INSTRUCTIONS to Our Governor and Commander-in-Chief in and over the Malayan Union, or to any other officer for the time being administering the Government of the Malayan Union.

WHEREAS by the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946 (hereinafter called "the Order in Council") We have ordered that as from the appointed day there shall be a Governor and Commander-in-Chief (in the Order in Council and hereinafter called "the Governor") in and over the Malayan Union (in the Order in Council and hereinafter called "the Union"):

AND WHEREAS We have by the Order in Council empowered and commanded the Governor to do all things that belong to his said office in accordance with the Order in Council and such Commission as may be issued to him under Our Sign Manual and Signet and according to such Instructions as may from time to time be given to him under our Sign Manual and Signet, or through a Secretary of State, and such Orders in Council and other laws as may from time to time be in force in the Union:

AND WHEREAS We are minded to issue these Our Instructions under Our Sign Manual and Signet for the guidance of the Governor and any other Officer who may administer the Government of the Union:

NOW, THEREFORE, as from the appointed day, We do hereby direct and enjoin and declare Our Will and pleasure as follows:

1. The Governor may, whenever he thinks fit, require any person in the public service of the Union to take the Oath of Allegiance in the form prescribed by the Order in Council, together with such other oath or oaths as may from time to time be prescribed by any laws in force in the Union. The Governor is to administer such oaths or cause them to be administered by some public officer of the Union.

2. Whenever there is a subsisting appointment of a Deputy to the Governor under the Order in Council, these Instructions, so far as they apply to any matter or thing to be done, or any functions to be performed by such Deputy, shall be deemed to be addressed to and shall be observed by such Deputy.

3. The Executive Council of the Union shall consist of the Governor as Chairman, three ex officio members, that is to say the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General and the Financial Secretary, together with two members holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union (hereinafter called "Official Members") and five members, not holding such office (hereinafter called "Unofficial Members") to be appointed by Us or by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal of the Union in pursuance of instructions from Us through a Secretary of State.

===== Page 15 =====
4. (1) Subject to the provisions of the Order in Council, every Official or Unofficial Member of the Executive Council shall hold his seat in Council during His Majesty's pleasure, and, subject thereto, shall cease to be a Member at the end of three years from the date of the Instrument by which he is appointed, or such earlier date as may be provided by such Instrument; or previously if his seat shall become vacant under the provisions of these Instructions.

If any person is appointed to be a Temporary Member of the Council and his temporary appointment is immediately followed by his definitive appointment, the said period of three years shall be reckoned from the date of the Instrument by which he is appointed a Temporary Member.

(2) The seat of a Member of the Executive Council shall become vacant—
(a) upon his death; or
(b) if, being an Official Member, he shall cease to hold office of emolument under the Crown in the Union; or
(c) if, being an Unofficial Member, he shall be appointed permanently to any such office; or
(d) if he shall, by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor, resign his seat in the Executive Council; or
(e) if he shall be absent from the Union without written permission from the Governor:

Provided that a Member shall not be deemed to be absent from the Union for the purpose of this paragraph by reason only of absence in the Colony of Singapore for a period not exceeding one month.

(3) Any person vacating a seat as a Member of the Executive Council may, if qualified, be again appointed from time to time.

(4) If an Unofficial Member be appointed temporarily to any office of emolument under the Crown in the Union or to act in any such office, he shall not sit as an Unofficial Member of the Executive Council so long as he continues to hold or act in that office.

(5) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, suspend any Official or Unofficial Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the Executive Council. Every such suspension shall forthwith be reported by the Governor to Us through a Secretary of State and shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal, or by Us through a Secretary of State, or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the Executive Council.

(6) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Official or Unofficial Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council, and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared, in manner aforesaid, to be again capable of discharging his said functions.

5. (1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council by reason of the fact that—
(a) an ex officio or Official Member is administering the Government of the Union; or
(b) one person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the three officers specified in clause 3 of these Instructions; c [POSSIBLY MISSING]

===== Page 16 =====
(c) No person is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or

(d) a Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or

(e) the seat of a Member is vacant for any cause; or

(f) a Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in these Instructions, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or

(g) a Member is absent from the Union; or

(h) an Unofficial Member has been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union or to act in any such office;

a person may be appointed a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) The said person shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal and—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as ex officio or Official Members, shall be a person holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union; and

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as Unofficial Members, shall be a person not holding any such office.

(3) Every person so appointed shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of Members sitting in the Executive Council as ex officio or Official Members, an Official Member; and

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as Unofficial Members, an Unofficial Member; and, subject to the provisions of this clause, the provisions of clause 4 of these Instructions shall apply accordingly: Provided that, in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed shall not be regarded as an Official Member in computing the number of such Members for purposes of clause 3 of these Instructions.

(4) The Governor shall forthwith report every such temporary appointment to Us through a Secretary of State. Any such appointment may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be disallowed by Us through a Secretary of State or revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of disallowance by Us or of revocation by the Governor, or on supersession of the appointment by the definite appointment of a person to fill the vacancy, or when the vacancy shall otherwise cease to exist.

6. The Members of the Executive Council shall take precedence as we may specially assign and, in the absence of such assignment, as of Members.

First, the ex officio Members in the order in which they are specified in clause 3 of these Instructions;

===== Page 17 =====
Secondly, the Official Members, according to the priority of their appointments as Official Members; or if appointed on the same day, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor;

Thirdly, the Official Members temporarily appointed under clause 5, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor;

Fourthly, the Unofficial Members in order according to the dates when they were first appointed to be Members, or temporary Members as the case may be, of the Executive Council, and, in the case of more than one appointment on the same day, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor or, in the absence of such assignment, according to the alphabetical order of their names:

Provided that, where a Member is reappointed to fill a vacancy caused by the termination of his own term of office, the date from which he has been continuously a Member of the Council (any interval between such termination and re-appointment being disregarded) shall be regarded as the date of his appointment for the purposes of this clause.

Summoning and quorum.

7.—(1) The Executive Council shall not be summoned except by the authority of the Governor.

(2) The Executive Council shall not be disqualified for the transaction of business by reason of any vacancy among the Members; but no business except that of adjournment shall be transacted if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than three Members present besides the Governor or Member presiding.

Governor to preside.

8. The Governor shall, so far as is practicable, attend and preside at all meetings of the Executive Council, and, in his absence, such member as the Governor may appoint or, in the absence of such Member or if no Member be so appointed, the senior Member of the Council present shall preside.

Consultation with Executive Council.

9. The Governor shall consult with the Executive Council in the execution of all powers and authorities conferred upon him, except in cases—

(a) which are of such a nature that, in his judgment, Our service would sustain material prejudice by consulting the Council thereupon; or

(b) in which the matters to be decided shall be too unimportant to require their advice; or

(c) in which the matters are too urgent to admit of their advice being given by the time within which it may be necessary for him to act.

In every case falling within paragraph (c) of this clause, he shall, as soon as practicable, communicate to the Council the measures which he shall have adopted with the reasons therefor.

Governor to propose questions.

10. The Governor shall alone be entitled to submit questions to the Executive Council; but if the Governor decline to submit any question to the Council when requested in writing by any Member so to do, it shall be competent to such Member to require that there be recorded upon the Minutes his written application together with the answer returned by the Governor thereto.

Governor may act in opposition to Executive Council.

11. The Governor may act in opposition to the advice given to him by Members of the Executive Council, if in any case it shall in his judgment be right so to do; but in any such case he shall at the first convenient opportunity, fully report the matter to Us through a Secretary of State with the reasons for his action. In every such case it shall

===== Page 18 =====
be competent to any Member of the Council to require that there be recorded upon the Minutes any advice or opinion he may give upon the question and the grounds therefor.

12. The Governor shall forthwith communicate to the Executive Council these Our Instructions and all such others as from time to time We may direct, or he shall find convenient for Our service to impart to them.

13. Minutes shall be kept of all the proceedings of the Executive Council and the Legislative Council. At every meeting of each Council the Minutes of the last preceding meeting shall be confirmed, with or without amendment as the case may require, before proceeding to the despatch of any other business. Twice in each year a full transcript of all Minutes of the Executive Council and of the Legislative Council for the preceding half-year shall be transmitted to Us through a Secretary of State.

14. (1) In the making of laws the Governor and the Legislative Council shall observe, as far as practicable, the following Rules:

(a) All laws shall be styled "Ordinances" and the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor of the Malayan Union, with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council": Provided that in the case of:

(i) any law made by the Governor under section 85 of the Order in Council, the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor of the Malayan Union in accordance with the provisions of section 85 of the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946"; and

(ii) in the case of any law having effect by virtue of a declaration made by the Governor under section 29 of the Order in Council, the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor in accordance with the provisions of section 29 of the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946".

(b) All Ordinances shall be distinguished by titles, and shall be divided into successive sections consecutively numbered, and to every section there shall be annexed in the margin a short indication of its contents. The Ordinances enacted in each year shall be distinguished by consecutive numbers, commencing in each year with the number one.

(c) Each different matter shall be provided for by a different Ordinance without inter-mixing in one and the same Ordinance such things as have no proper relation to each other. No provision shall be inserted in any Ordinance which shall be foreign to what the title of such Ordinance imports; and no permanent provision shall be included in any temporary Ordinance.

(2) In the making of laws Resident Commissioners and State Councils and Settlement Councils shall observe, as far as practicable, the following Rules:

(a) All laws shall be styled "Enactments" and the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor with the advice and consent of the State Council"; or "enacted by the Governor with the advice and consent of the Settlement Council", as the case may be.

===== Page 19 =====
(b) The provisions of sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) of paragraph (I) of this clause shall apply to enactments of State Councils and Settlement Councils.

(3) In the making of laws, Sultans in Sultan’s Advisory Councils shall conform, as nearly as may be, to any instructions given by the Governor under the Public Seal in that behalf.

15.—(I) Save as hereinafter mentioned, the Governor shall not, without having previously obtained instructions through a Secretary of State, assent to any Bill passed by the Legislative Council, which falls within any of the following classes, unless such Bill contain a clause suspending the operation thereof until the signification in the Union of Our pleasure thereon, that is to say:

(I) Any Bill for the divorce of married persons;
(2) Any Bill whereby any grant of land or money, or other donation or gratuity, may be made to himself;
(3) Any Bill affecting the currency of the Union, or relating to the issue of bank notes;
(4) Any Bill establishing any Banking Association, or amending or altering the constitution, powers, or privileges of any Banking Association;
(5) Any Bill imposing differential duties;
(6) Any Bill the provisions of which shall appear to him to be inconsistent with obligations imposed upon Us by Treaty;
(7) Any Bill interfering with the discipline or control of Our Forces by land or sea or air;
(8) Any Bill relating to questions of defence or any matter affecting naval, military, or air forces or the control of aerial navigation or aircraft or the transport or means of communication of naval, military or air forces;
(9) Any Bill of any extraordinary nature and importance whereby Our prerogative, or the rights and property of Our subjects not residing in the Union, or the trade, transport or communications of any part of Our dominions, may be prejudiced;
(10) Any Bill containing any provision prohibiting, regulating or licensing the import or export of goods, or imposing or varying any customs, excise or export duty, tariff, levy or cess, or allowing any discount, rebate or drawback from any such duty, tariff, levy, or cess, or containing any other provision (whether of a similar nature to the foregoing or not), whereby the trade or commerce of the Colony of Singapore might be prejudicially affected, unless the Governor of the said Colony, having previously been informed of the provision, shall have signified that he does not object thereto;
(11) Any Bill whereby persons of any racial, religious or other community are made liable to any disabilities or restrictions to which persons of other such communities are not also subjected or made liable, or are granted advantages not extended to persons of other such communities;
(12) Any Bill the principle of which has evoked serious opposition by any racial, religious, or other community and which in the opinion of the Governor is likely to involve oppression or unfairness to any such community;
(13) Any Bill containing provisions to which Our assent has been once refused, or which have been disallowed by Us:

===== Page 20 =====
Provided that the Governor may assent in Our name to any Bill falling within any of the classes described in this sub-clause (except a Bill falling within any class mentioned in paragraph (6) or (10) of this sub-clause), if he shall have satisfied himself that an urgent necessity exists requiring that such Bill be brought into immediate operation but, in any such case, he shall at the earliest opportunity, transmit to Us any Bill to which he shall have assented, together with his reasons for so assenting.

(2) The Governor shall not, without previously having obtained instructions from a Secretary of State, permit to be introduced or put into operation by subordinate legislation or executive action any such provision as is mentioned in paragraph (10) of sub-clause (1) of this clause, unless the Governor of the Colony of Singapore, having previously been informed of the provision, shall have signified that he does not object thereto.

16.—(1) Every Bill (not being a Government measure) intended to affect or benefit some particular person, association, or corporate body, shall contain a clause saving the right of Us, Our Heirs and Successors, all bodies politic and corporate, and all others, except such as are mentioned in the Bill and those claiming by, from, or under them.

(2) No such Bill shall be introduced into the Legislative Council until due notice has been given by not less than three successive publications of the Bill in the Gazette of the Union, and the Governor shall not assent thereto in Our Name unless it has been so published. A certificate under the hand of the Governor signifying that such publication has been made shall be transmitted to Us with the Bill or Ordinance.

17. The provisions of clauses 15 and 16 shall apply mutatis mutandis to any law made by the Governor under section 85 of the Order in Council as they apply to a Bill requiring the Assent of the Governor.

18. When any Ordinance of the Legislative Council or Enactment of a State or Settlement Council shall have been enacted, the Governor shall forthwith transmit to Us, through a Secretary of State, for the signification of our pleasure, a transcript in duplicate of the Ordinance or Enactment duly authenticated under the Public Seal of the Union and by his own signature, together with an explanation of the reasons and occasion for the enactment of the Ordinance or Enactment.

19. As soon as practicable after the commencement of each year, the Governor shall cause a complete collection of all Ordinances and Enactments enacted during the preceding year to be published for general information.

20.—(1) Every appointment by the Governor of any person to any office or employment shall, unless otherwise provided by law, be expressed to be during pleasure only.

(2) Save with the consent of the Governor, no person shall be appointed to public office in the Union who is not a Malayan Union citizen.

21.—(1) Whenever any offender shall have been condemned by sentence of any civil Court in the Union to suffer death, the Governor shall call upon the Judge who presided at the trial to make to him a written report of the case of such offender, and shall cause such report to be taken into consideration at a meeting of the Executive Council, and he may cause the said Judge to be specially summoned to attend at such meeting and to produce his notes thereat. The Governor shall not pardon or reprieve any such offender unless it shall appear to

===== Page 21 =====
him expedient so to do, upon receiving the advice of the Executive Council thereon; but in all such cases he is to decide either to extend or to withhold a pardon or reprieve, according to his own deliberate judgment, whether the Members of the Executive Council concur therein or otherwise, entering nevertheless, in the Minutes of the Executive Council, his reasons at length, in case he should decide any such question in opposition to the judgment of the majority of the Members thereof.

(2) Until the Executive Council shall be constituted, references in this clause to the Executive Council shall be construed as references to the Advisory Council.

Blue Book.

22. The Governor shall forward to Us, each year, through a Secretary of State, the annual book of returns commonly called the Blue Book, relating to Revenue and Expenditure, Public Works, Legislation, Civil Establishments, Pensions, Population, Schools, Course of Exchange, Imports and Exports, Agricultural Produce, Manufactures, and other matters in the said Blue Book more particularly specified with reference to the state and condition of the Union.

Governor's absence.

23. Except in circumstances in which he is not regarded as absent from the Union for the purposes of the Order in Council, the Governor shall not quit the Union without having first obtained leave from Us for so doing through a Secretary of State.

Interpretation.

24.—(1) In these Our Instructions, unless inconsistent with the context:

“the appointed day” has the same meaning as in the Order in Council;

“the Executive Council”, “the Legislative Council” and “the Advisory Council” mean respectively the Executive Council, the Legislative Council and the Advisory Council of the Union constituted under and by virtue of the Order in Council;

“the Governor” includes every person for the time being administering the Government of the Union;

“Malayan Union citizen” means a citizen of the Union within the meaning of any Order in Council providing for Malayan Union citizenship;

“State Councils”, “Settlement Councils” and “Sultan's Advisory Councils” mean respectively the State Councils, Settlement Councils and Sultan's Advisory Councils constituted under and by virtue of the Order in Council; and

“Secretary of State” means one of Our Principal Secretaries of State.

(2) For the purposes of these Our Instructions, a person shall not be deemed to hold an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union by reason only that he is in receipt of a pension or other like allowance in respect of service under the Crown.

If it shall be declared by any law for the time being in force in the Union that an office shall not be an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union for all or any of the purposes of these Our Instructions, these Instructions shall have effect accordingly as if such law were enacted therein.

Given at Our Court at Saint James's, this 27th day of March, 1946, in the Tenth year of Our Reign.

Printed by His Majesty's Stationery Office Press, Drury Lane, W.C.2.

(4838) Wt. — Pink 109 100 4/46 D.L. G. 416

===== Page 22 =====
THE MALAYAN UNION
The Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946

AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE
The 27th day of March, 1946

Present

THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL.

WHEREAS by the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890, it was, amongst other things, enacted that it should be lawful for His Majesty the King to hold, exercise and enjoy any jurisdiction which His Majesty then had or might at any time thereafter have within a foreign country in the same and as ample a manner as if His Majesty had acquired that jurisdiction by the cession or conquest of territory:

AND WHEREAS His Majesty has full power and jurisdiction within the Malay States of Johore, Kedah, Kelantan, Negri Sembilan, Pahang, Perak, Perlis, Selangor and Trengganu (hereinafter referred to together as "the Malay States"):

AND WHEREAS, by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Act, 1946 (hereinafter called "the Act of 1946") it is, amongst other things, enacted that on such day as His Majesty may by Order in Council appoint (in that Act and in this Order referred to as "the appointed day") the Straits Settlements Act, 1866, shall be repealed and the Straits Settlements, that is to say the settlements and dependencies mentioned in the Schedule to the Act of 1946 (which comprise, among other settlements and dependencies, the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang (including province Wellesley) and the dependencies of the said settlements) shall cease to be a single colony and that on and after the appointed day each of the said settlements and dependencies shall be divided into such territories as His Majesty may by Order in Council direct and that those territories shall be governed either singly or in conjunction with such other territories (whether falling within the Schedule to the Act of 1946 or not) as may be specified in such Order and that such Order in Council may contain such other and consequential provisions as are contained in this Order:

AND WHEREAS by the Act of 1946 it is further enacted that the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945, shall apply in relation to each of the territories into which the said Settlements and dependencies are divided by Order under this Act as if it were a British settlement as so defined:

AND WHEREAS by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Order in Council, 1946, it is provided that the appointed day shall be the first day of April, 1946:

AND WHEREAS it is expedient to make provision for the administration, on and after the appointed day, of the Malay States in conjunction with the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang and the dependencies of the said Settlements:

===== Page 23 =====
NOW THEREFORE, His Majesty, by virtue and in exercise of the powers by the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890, and by the Act of 1946 and the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945, or otherwise in His Majesty vested, is pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council to order, and it is hereby ordered, as follows:

PART I.

PRELIMINARY.

1.—(1) This Order may be cited as the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946, and, except as to section 13 and Parts IV, V, VI, VII and VIII, shall come into operation on the appointed day.

(2) Section 13 and Parts IV, V, VI, VII and VIII of this Order shall come into operation on such day, or days respectively, within a period of six months from the appointed day, as may be fixed by the Governor by proclamation in the Gazette and the Governor may fix different days for different purposes and different provisions of that section and those Parts:

Provided that the said period of six months may be extended by the Governor, by Proclamation in the Gazette, for such further period as may be approved by a Secretary of State.

2.—(1) In this Order, unless the context otherwise requires—

“the Chief Justice” means the Chief Justice of the Union;

“the existing laws” means the common law, doctrines of equity and all Acts of Parliament, Orders in Council, Enactments of the Legislature of the Federated Malay States, Enactments of the Legislature of any Malay State, Ordinances of the Legislature of the Colony of the Straits Settlements, Proclamations issued by the High Commissioner of the Malay States or by the Ruler of any of the Malay States, or by the Governor of the Straits Settlements or by, or under the authority of, the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia (other than the Proclamations establishing the British Military Administration and delegating powers thereunder) and all Rules, Regulations and By-laws made thereunder and all other enactments and instruments having the force of law in the Union or in any part thereof immediately prior to the appointed day, whether the same were administered by the British Military Administration or not;

“the Gazette” means the official Gazette of the Union;

“the Governor” means the Governor and Commander-in-Chief for the time being of the Union and includes any officer for the time being administering the Government thereof, and, to the extent that a Deputy to the Governor is authorised to act, that Deputy;

“the Governor in Council” means the Governor acting after consultation with, but not necessarily in accordance with the advice of, the Executive Council of the Union nor necessarily in such Council assembled; and, until Section 13 of this Order is in operation, means the Governor;

“Malayan Union citizen” means a citizen of the Union within the meaning of any Order in Council or other enactment providing for Malayan Union Citizenship;

“meeting” means any sitting or sittings of a Council constituted under this Order commencing when the Council first meets after being

===== Page 24 =====
summoned at any time and terminating when the Council is adjourned sine die or at the conclusion of a session without adjournment;

“prescribed” means prescribed by any law made under this Order or by regulation made by the Governor under section 96;

“property” includes all property movable or immovable and all estates, interests, easements and rights, whether equitable or legal, in, to or out of property, and things in action and rights to revenue, taxes, duties and other dues; and “vested” in relation to property includes rights to property which are future or contingent and rights in reversion and remainder;

“the Public Seal” means the public seal of the Union and includes the official stamp mentioned in section 9 of this Order;

“session” means the sittings of any Council constituted under this Order commencing when the Council first meets after being so constituted, or after its prorogation or dissolution at any time, and terminating when the Council is prorogued or is dissolved without having been prorogued;

“the settlements” means the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang;

“the Settlement of Malacca” means the Town and Fort and Province of Malacca and all islands and places heretofore known or administered as part of the Settlement of Malacca, and the territorial waters adjacent thereto;

“the settlement of Penang” means Georgetown and the Island of Penang (or Prince of Wales’ Island) Province Wellesley and all islands and places heretofore known or administered as part of the Settlement of Penang, and the territorial waters adjacent thereto;

“Sultan” includes the Raja of Perlis and the Yang di peruan Besar of Negri Sembilan, and, during a Regency in any of the Malay States, means the Regent, or if there be a Council of Regency, the Member of that Council to whom is assigned the function in connection with which the term is used;

“the Supreme Court” means the Supreme Court of the Union;

“the Union” means the Malayan Union constituted by section 3 of this Order.

(2) For the purposes of this Order, when reference is made to a Sultan of any of the Malay States or to any public officer by the term designating his office, such reference means the Sultan for the time being of the State concerned, or the officer for the time being lawfully discharging the functions of that office, as the case may be.

(3) For the purposes of this Order, a person shall not be deemed to hold an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union by reason only that he is in receipt of a pension or other like allowance in respect of service under the Crown.

If it shall be declared by any law for the time being in force in the Union that an office shall not be an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union for all or any of the purposes of this Order, this Order shall have effect accordingly as if that law were enacted herein.

(4) The Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply for the interpretation of this Order as it applies for the interpretation of an Act of Parliament.

===== Page 25 =====
3. There shall be established a Union comprising the Malay States and the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang, to be governed and administered together and to be known as the Malayan Union.

PART II.

THE GOVERNOR AND EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.

Governor.

4. There shall be a Governor and Commander-in-Chief (hereinafter called "the Governor") in and over the Union, and appointments to the said office shall be made by Commission under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet.

Powers of Governor.

5. The Governor is hereby empowered and commanded to do all things that belong to his said office in accordance with this Order and such Commission as may be issued to him under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet and according to such Instructions as may from time to time be given to him under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet, or through a Secretary of State, and such Orders in Council and other laws as may from time to time be in force in the Union.

Publication of Governor's Commission and taking of oaths.

6. Every person appointed to fill the office of Governor shall, before entering on any of the duties of his office, cause the Commission appointing him to be Governor to be read and published at the seat of Government, in the presence of the Chief Justice or, in his absence, of some other Judge of the Supreme Court, and (if section 13 of this Order is in force) of such Members of the Executive Council of the Union as can conveniently attend; and shall take before them the Oath of Allegiance and the Oath for the due execution of the office of Governor in the forms set out in the First Schedule to this Order, which Oaths the Chief Justice or such other Judge as aforesaid shall administer.

Succession to Government.

7. (1) Whenever the office of Governor becomes vacant, or the Governor is absent from the Union, or the Governor is from any cause prevented from, or incapable of, performing the duties of his office, then such person as His Majesty may appoint under His Sign Manual and Signet or if there is no such person in the Union so appointed and capable of discharging the duties of administration, the senior Member of the Executive Council then in the Union and so capable, shall during His Majesty's pleasure, administer the Government of the Union, first taking, in manner in this Order prescribed, the oaths directed by this Order to be taken by the Governor. Thereupon such person or Member shall, subject, if he is so appointed as aforesaid, to the terms of his appointment, do, during His Majesty's pleasure, all things that belong to the Office of Governor as provided in this Order:

Provided that the Governor or any other person or Member as aforesaid shall not be regarded as absent from the Union or prevented from or incapable of performing the duties of his office for the purposes of this Order during his passage from one part of the Union to another or during a visit to the Colony of Singapore or when there is a subsisting appointment of a Deputy under the next succeeding section of this Order.

(2) Any such person as aforesaid shall not continue to administer the Government after the Governor or some other person having a prior right to administer the same has notified him that he is about to assume or resume the administration.

===== Page 26 =====
8.—(1) Whenever the Governor has occasion to be absent from the seat of Government but not from the Union or to be absent from the Union for a period which he has reason to believe will be of short duration, or whenever by reason of illness which he has reason to believe will be of short duration he considers it desirable so to do, he may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint any person in the Union to be his Deputy during such absence or illness, and in that capacity to exercise and perform for and on behalf of the Governor during such absence or illness all such functions of the Governor as shall be specified in such Instrument.

(2) By the appointment of a Deputy as aforesaid the power and authority of the Governor shall not be abridged, altered, or in any way affected otherwise than as His Majesty may at any time hereafter think proper to direct, and every such Deputy shall conform to and observe all such instructions as the Governor shall from time to time address to him for his guidance.

(3) Any appointment under this section may at any time be revoked by the Governor or by a Secretary of State and, in case of absence as aforesaid, shall cease and determine upon the return of the Governor to the seat of Government or to the Union, as the case may be.

9. The Governor shall keep and use the Public Seal of the Union for sealing all things whatsoever that shall pass the said Seal. Until a Public Seal shall be provided for the Union, an official stamp bearing the inscription "Malayan Union. Public Seal" may be used as the Public Seal.

10. Subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force in the Union and of any Instructions from time to time given to the Governor under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, the Governor, in His Majesty's name and on His Majesty's behalf, may make and execute, under the Public Seal, grants and dispositions of any lands within the Union which may be lawfully granted or disposed of by His Majesty.

11. Subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force in the Union and to any Instructions from time to time given to him by His Majesty through a Secretary of State, the Governor for cause shown to his satisfaction, may dismiss or suspend from the exercise of his office any person holding any public office within the Union, or may take such other disciplinary action as may seem to him desirable.

12. When any offence has been committed for which the offender may be tried within the Union, the Governor may, as he shall see occasion, in His Majesty's name and on His Majesty's behalf, grant a pardon to any accomplice in such offence who shall give such information as shall lead to the conviction of the principal offender, or any one of such offenders if more than one; and further may grant to any offender convicted of any such offence in any Court within the Union, a pardon, either free or subject to lawful conditions, or any respite, either indefinite or for such period as the Governor may think fit, of the execution of any sentence passed on such offender, and may remit the whole or any part of such sentence or of any penalties or forfeitures otherwise due to His Majesty.

13. There shall be an Executive Council for the Union and the said Council shall consist of such persons as His Majesty shall direct by

===== Page 27 =====
Instructions under His Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, and all such persons shall hold their places in the Executive Council during His Majesty's pleasure and, subject thereto, for such period and upon such conditions as may be specified in any such Instructions.

PART III.

COURTS.

14.—(1) There shall be in and for the Union a Court of unlimited civil and criminal jurisdiction to be called the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court shall be a Court of Record and may consist of a High Court and a Court of Appeal.

(2) There shall be a Chief Justice appointed by His Majesty by Letters Patent under the Great Seal of the Realm, or by the Governor by Letters Patent under the Public Seal in accordance with such instructions as he may receive from His Majesty through a Secretary of State, and as many Judges of the Supreme Court, appointed similarly or in manner prescribed, as may from time to time be required. The Chief Justice and Judges of the Supreme Court shall hold office during His Majesty's pleasure.

(3) The constitution, powers and procedure of the Supreme Court and provisions relating to appeals therefrom to His Majesty in Council and provisions relating to the qualifications, order of precedence, duties and powers of Judges, and appointment of temporary Judges, may, subject to the provisions of this Order, be prescribed by laws made under this Order.

15.—(1) Courts subordinate to the Supreme Court and Courts of special jurisdiction may be constituted by laws made under this Order.

(2) Provision may be made by such laws for the hearing and determining of appeals from any such Court by the Supreme Court or otherwise.

PART IV.

LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.

16.—(1) There shall be a Legislative Council in and for the Union constituted in accordance with the provisions of this Order.

(2) The Council shall consist of the Governor as President, three ex officio Members, and such Official Members, not exceeding eighteen and such Unofficial Members, not exceeding twenty-one, as His Majesty shall direct by Instructions under His Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State.

Ex officio Members.

17. The ex officio Members shall be the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General and the Financial Secretary.

Official Members.

18. The Official Members shall be persons holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, and shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of His Majesty's instructions through a Secretary of State.

Unofficial Members.

19. The Unofficial Members shall be Malayan Union citizens of the age of twenty-one years or upwards not holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, who, the Governor is satisfied, are able

===== Page 28 =====
To speak and (unless incapacitated by blindness or other physical cause) to read and write the English language with a degree of proficiency sufficient to enable them to take an active part in the proceedings of the Council. Unofficial Members shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of His Majesty's Instructions through a Secretary of State:

Provided that the Governor may, for cause shown to his satisfaction, appoint a British subject who is not a Malayan Union citizen to be an Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council.

20. No person shall be capable of being appointed an Official or Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council or, having been appointed, shall sit and vote therein, who at the time of appointment—

(1) is a person found or declared to be of unsound mind under any law in force in the Union; or

(2) has, in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection, been sentenced to death or to imprisonment (by whatever name called) for a term exceeding six months and has not either suffered the punishment to which he was sentenced or such other punishment as may by competent authority have been substituted therefor or received a free pardon; or

(3) is an undischarged bankrupt; or

(4) is a party to, or a member of a firm or a director or manager of a company which is a party to, any subsisting contract with the Government of the Union, for or on account of the public service, or is otherwise to his knowledge interested in any such contract, and shall not have disclosed to the Governor the nature of such contract and his interest, or the interest of any such firm or company, therein.

21.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, every Official Member or Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council shall hold his seat in the Legislative Council during His Majesty's pleasure and, subject thereto, shall cease to be a Member at the end of three years from the date of the Instrument by which he is appointed, or at such earlier date as may be provided by such Instrument, or previously if his seat shall become vacant under the provisions of this Order.

(2) If a person is appointed a Temporary Member of the Legislative Council in accordance with the provisions of Section 22 of this Order and such appointment is immediately followed by his definitive appointment as a Member, the said period of three years shall be reckoned from the date of his appointment as a Temporary Member.

(3) The seat of a Member of the Legislative Council (other than an ex officio Member) shall become vacant—

(a) upon his death; or

(b) if he shall, without the leave of the Governor, be absent from two consecutive meetings of the Council; or

(c) if he shall cease to be a Malayan Union citizen, or, if appointed under the proviso to section 19, a British subject, or shall take any oath, or make any declaration or acknowledgment of allegiance, obedience or adherence to any foreign Power or State; or shall do, concur in or adopt any act done with the intention that he shall become a subject or citizen of any foreign Power or State; or

===== Page 29 =====
(d) if he shall be declared a bankrupt under any law in force in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection; or

(e) if in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection, he shall be sentenced to death, or imprisonment, by whatever name called, for a term exceeding six months; or

(f) if he shall be found or declared to be of unsound mind under any law in force in the Union; or

(g) if he shall, by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor, resign his seat in the Council; or

(h) if, being an Official Member, he shall cease to hold office of emolument under the Crown in the Union; or

(i) if, being an Unofficial Member, he shall be appointed permanently to any such office; or

(j) if, being an Unofficial Member, he shall, without the approval of the Governor, become a party to, or if any firm in which he is a partner, or any company of which he is a director or manager, shall become a party to, or if he shall be otherwise interested in, any contract with the Government of the Union for or on account of the public service and shall not, before the making of the contract, have disclosed to the Governor the nature of such contract and his interest or the interest of any such firm or company therein.

(4) If an Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council shall be appointed temporarily to any office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, or shall be appointed to act in any such office, he shall not sit or vote in the Legislative Council so long as he continues to hold or to act in that office.

(5) Any person vacating a seat as a Member of the Legislative Council, may, if qualified, be again appointed as a Member from time to time.

(6) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Official Member or Unofficial Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council, and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared, in manner aforesaid, to be again capable of discharging his said functions.

(7) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, suspend any Official Member or Unofficial Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the Council. Every such suspension shall forthwith be reported by the Governor to His Majesty through a Secretary of State, and shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal or by His Majesty through a Secretary of State, or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the Legislative Council.

(8) All questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain an Official or Unofficial Member shall be referred to and decided by the Governor in Council whose decision shall be final and shall not be called in question in any Court in the Union.

22.—(1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Legislative Council as ex officio Members, or Official Members or Unofficial Members, by reason of the fact that—

(a) an ex officio Member is administering the Government of the Union; or

===== Page 30 =====
(b) One person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the three officers specified in section 17 of this Order; or
(c) No person is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or
(d) An Official Member is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or
(e) The seat of an Official or Unofficial Member is vacant for any cause other than a dissolution of the Council; or
(f) An Official or Unofficial Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in this Order, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or
(g) An Official or Unofficial Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or
(h) A Member is absent from the Union; or
(i) An Unofficial Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of his having been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union or to act in any such office;

The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint a person to be a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) If the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Official Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as an Official Member; and if the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Unofficial Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as an Unofficial Member.

(3) Every person appointed to be a Temporary Member under this section shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—

(a) In the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Official Members, an Official Member;

(b) In the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Unofficial Members, an Unofficial Member;

And, subject to the provisions of this section, the provisions of section 21 of this Order shall apply accordingly:

Provided that, in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed shall not be regarded as an Official Member in computing the number of such Members for the purposes of sub-section (2) of section 16 of this Order.

(4) The Governor shall forthwith report every such temporary appointment to His Majesty through a Secretary of State. Any such appointment may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be disallowed by His Majesty through a Secretary of State or revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment under this section shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of disallowance by His Majesty or of revocation by the Governor, or on supervision of the appointment by the definitive appointment of a person to fill the vacancy, or when the vacancy shall otherwise cease to exist.

===== Page 31 =====
Summoning of public officers.

23. The Governor may summon to any meeting of the Legislative Council any person holding public office under the Crown in the Union, notwithstanding that such person may not be a Member of the Council, when, in the opinion of the Governor, the business before the Council renders the presence of such person desirable. Any person so summoned shall be entitled to take part in the proceedings of the Council relating to the business in respect of which he is summoned as if he were a Member of the Council, except that he shall not have the right to vote in the Council.

Governor to preside.

24. The Governor, if present, shall preside at meetings of the Council, and, in his absence, such Member as the Governor may in writing appoint or, in the absence of such Member, or if no Member be so appointed, the senior Member of Council actually present shall preside.

Quorum.

25. No business except that of adjournment shall be transacted by the Council if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than one quarter of the Members present besides the Governor or other Member presiding.

Precedence of Members.

26. After the Governor, the Members of the Council shall take precedence as His Majesty may specially assign or, if precedence be not so assigned, as follows:

First, the ex officio Members in the order in which they are mentioned in section 17 of this Order;

Secondly, the Official Members appointed under section 18 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments as such, or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Thirdly, Official Members temporarily appointed under section 22 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Fourthly, the Unofficial Members appointed under section 19 of this Order according to the priority of their appointments as such, or if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Fifthly, the Unofficial Members temporarily appointed under section 22 of this Order according to the priority of their appointments or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor:

Provided that when a Member is re-appointed to fill a vacancy caused by the termination of his own term of office the date from which he has been continuously a Member of the Council (any interval between such termination and re-appointment being disregarded) shall be regarded as the date of his appointment for the purposes of this section.

PART V.

LEGISLATION AND PROCEDURE IN LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.

Power to make laws.

27. Subject to the provisions of this Order, it shall be lawful for the Governor, with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council, to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Union.

Voting.

28. Save as otherwise provided in this Order, all questions proposed for decision in the Council shall be determined by a majority of the

===== Page 32 =====
Votes of the Members present and voting. The Governor shall not have an original vote, but if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, he shall have a casting vote. In the absence of the Governor, the Member presiding shall have an original vote and also, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, a casting vote.

29.—(1) If the Governor shall consider that it is expedient in the interests of public order, public faith or good government that any Bill introduced, or any motion proposed for decision in the Council shall have effect, then if the Council fail to pass such a Bill or motion within such time and in such form as the Governor may think reasonable and expedient, the Governor, at any time in his discretion, may, notwithstanding any provisions of this Order or of any Standing Rules or Orders of the Council, declare that such Bill or motion shall have effect as if it had been passed by the Council, either in the form in which it was so introduced or proposed or with such amendments as the Governor shall think fit which have been moved or proposed in the Council or in any Committee thereof; and thereupon the said Bill or motion shall have effect as if it had been so passed, and, in the case of any such Bill, the provisions of this Order relating to assent to Bills and disallowance of laws shall apply accordingly.

(2) In this section the expressions "public order, public faith or good government" shall, without prejudice to their generality, include the following:

(a) the responsibility of the Union as a component part of the British Empire including foreign relations and relations with other parts of the British Empire;

(b) all questions relating to defence, including provision, construction, maintenance and use of defence works, areas and communications;

(c) subjects upon which, in the opinion of the Governor or of a Secretary of State, it is necessary to secure uniformity in legislation between the Union and the Colony of Singapore; and

(d) all matters pertaining to the creation or abolition of any public office and to the appointment, salary or other conditions of service of any public officer or officers.

(3) The Governor shall forthwith report to a Secretary of State every case in which he shall make any such declaration as is mentioned in sub-section (1) of this section and the reason therefor.

(4) If any Member of the Legislative Council objects to any declaration made under this section, he may, within seven days of the making thereof, submit to the Governor a statement in writing of his reasons for so objecting, and a copy of such statement shall, if furnished by such Member, be forwarded by the Governor as soon as practicable to a Secretary of State.

(5) Any such declaration other than a declaration relating to a Bill, may be revoked by a Secretary of State, and the Governor shall notify such revocation in the Gazette; and from the date of such notification any motion which shall have had effect by virtue of the declaration revoked shall cease to have effect, and the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 38 of the Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply to such revocation as they apply to the repeal of an Act of Parliament.

===== Page 33 =====
30.—(1) No Bill shall become a law until either the Governor shall assent thereto in His Majesty's name and on His Majesty's behalf, and shall sign the same in token of assent, or His Majesty shall give his assent thereto through a Secretary of State.

(2) When a Bill is presented to the Governor for his assent, he shall, according to his discretion, but subject to the provisions of this Order and of any Instructions addressed to him under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, declare that he assents or refuses to assent thereto, or that he reserves the Bill for the signification of His Majesty's pleasure.

(3) A law assented to by the Governor shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the date of such publication, or, if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment (including any enactment in force at the commencement of this Order) that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

(4) A Bill reserved for the signification of His Majesty's pleasure shall become a law so soon as His Majesty shall have given His assent thereto, through a Secretary of State, and the Governor shall have signified such assent by Proclamation in the Gazette. Every such law shall come into operation on the date of such Proclamation or, if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment (including any enactment in force at the commencement of this Order) that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

31.—(1) Any law to which the Governor shall have given his assent may be disallowed by His Majesty through a Secretary of State.

(2) Whenever any law has been disallowed by His Majesty, the Governor shall cause notice of such disallowance to be published in the Gazette.

(3) Every law so disallowed shall cease to have effect as soon as notice of such disallowance shall be published as aforesaid. Thereafter any enactment repealed or amended by such law shall have effect as if such law had not been made, but, save as aforesaid, the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 38 of the Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply to such disallowance as they apply to the repeal of an Act of Parliament.

32. Subject to the provisions of this Order, the Governor and the Legislative Council shall, in the transaction of business and the passing of laws, conform as nearly as may be to the directions contained in any Instructions under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet which may from time to time be addressed to the Governor in that behalf.

33. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of such Instructions as aforesaid, the Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its own proceedings and the conduct of business and for the passing, intitulating and numbering of Bills, and for the presentation thereof to the Governor for his assent, but no such Rules or Orders shall have effect unless and until they have been approved by the Governor.

34. The official language of the Council shall be English.

35. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council, any Member may introduce any Bill or

===== Page 34 =====
Propose any motion for debate in, or may present any petition to, the Council, and the same shall be debated and disposed of according to the Standing Rules and Orders:

Provided that, except with the recommendation or consent of the Governor signified thereto, the Council shall not proceed upon any Bill, amendment, motion or petition, which, in the opinion of the Governor or of the presiding Member, would—

(a) dispose of, or charge any public revenue or public funds of the Union, or revoke or alter any disposition thereof or charge thereon, or impose, alter, or repeal any rate, tax or duty; or

(b) suspend the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council or any of them.

36.—(1) The sessions of the Legislative Council shall be held at such times and places as the Governor shall from time to time by Proclamation appoint.

(2) There shall be a session of the Council once at least in every year, so that a period of twelve months shall not intervene between the last sitting in one Session and the first sitting in the next Session.

37. The Governor may at any time, by Proclamation, prorogue the Legislative Council.

PART VI.

THE COUNCIL OF SULTANS.

38. There shall be established for the Union a Council to be called the Council of Sultans.

39.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order the Council of Sultans shall consist of the Governor as President and the following Members:

(1) His Highness the Sultan of Johore;
(2) His Highness the Sultan of Pahang;
(3) His Highness the Yang di per Tuan Besar of Negri Sembilan;
(4) His Highness the Sultan of Perak;
(5) His Highness the Sultan of Selangor;
(6) His Highness the Sultan of Kedah;
(7) His Highness the Raja of Perlis;
(8) His Highness the Sultan of Kelantan;
(9) His Highness the Sultan of Trengganu;
(10) The Chief Secretary;
(11) The Attorney-General; and
(12) The Financial Secretary.

(2) During a Regency in any of the Malay States, the Regent or, if there be a Council of Regency, such Member of that Council as the Council of Regency may assign, shall be a Member of the Council of Sultans in the place of the Sultan of the State.

40.—(1) The functions of the Council of Sultans shall be—

(a) to consider legislation, relating solely to matters of Muhammadan religion, which the Sultan’s Advisory Council in any State has approved for enactment; and

===== Page 35 =====
(b) To advise the Governor on any matter which he may refer to the Council for discussion, and on any matter which any Sultan may propose for discussion.

(2) Subject as hereinafter provided, every Bill relating solely to matters of Muhammadan religion approved by a Sultan's Advisory Council in any State under the provisions of section 75 of this Order, shall, after submission to the Council of Sultans, be referred by that Council to a Committee (in this section called "the Muhammadan Legislation Committee") consisting of the Muhammadan Members of the Council of Sultans under the chairmanship of the senior Sultan present. The Muhammadan Legislation Committee shall consider the Bill and shall report approval or disapproval thereof to the Council of Sultans, and, in case of disapproval, shall record the grounds of disapproval. Any such Bill which is approved by the Muhammadan Legislation Committee shall be approved by the Council of Sultans:

Provided that no Bill shall be received by the Council of Sultans or be referred to, or considered by the Muhammadan Legislation Committee, unless it be accompanied by a certificate from the Attorney-General certifying that, in his opinion, the Bill complies with sub-section (1) of section 75 of this Order, and does not conflict with any law in force in the State concerned other than a law, relating solely to matters of Muhammadan religion, which is to be repealed or modified by the Bill.

(3) A Bill approved by the Council of Sultans shall be returned by the Clerk of that Council to the Clerk of the Sultan's Advisory Council concerned with an intimation of such approval. Thereafter, the Sultan of the State concerned may assent thereto, and, upon such assent, the law shall come into operation as provided in section 75 of this Order.

(4) Any Bill disapproved by the Muhammadan Legislation Committee shall be disapproved by the Council of Sultans and shall be returned by the Clerk of that Council to the Clerk of the Sultan's Advisory Council concerned, together with the grounds of disapproval. Any Bill so returned may be altered by the Sultan's Advisory Council concerned and submitted again for consideration by the Council of Sultans.

(5) In this section the expression "senior Sultan" means the Sultan having precedence under section 42 of this Order.

Summoning of persons not Members.

41. The Governor may summon to any meeting of the Council of Sultans any person holding public office under the Crown in the Union, notwithstanding that such person may not be a member of the Council, when, in the opinion of the Governor, the business before the Council renders the presence of such person desirable. Any person so summoned shall not have the right to vote in the Council.

Precedence.

42. After the Governor the Members of the Council of Sultans shall take precedence among themselves as follows—

First, the Sultans in order according to the dates of their recognition by His Majesty as Sultans of their respective States;

Second, Regents in order according to the dates of their appointments as Regents; and

Third, the Chief Secretary, the Attorney-General and the Financial Secretary in that order.

Quorum.

43. No business except that of adjournment shall be transacted by the Council if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than eight Members present in addition to the Governor.

===== Page 36 =====
44. The official languages of the Council of Sultans shall be Malay and English.

45. Subject to the provisions of this Order, the Council may, from time to time, make, amend, and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its proceedings and the dispatch of business, but no such Standing Rules and Orders shall have effect until they have been approved by the Governor.

46.—(1) The Sessions of the Council of Sultans shall be held at such times and places as the Governor shall from time to time, by Proclamation, appoint.

(2) There shall be a session of the Council at least twice in every year.

PART VII.

STATE AND SETTLEMENT COUNCILS.

47. There shall be established a State Council for each of the Malay States, and a Settlement Council for each of the Settlements.

48. Each State Council and Settlement Council shall consist of the Resident Commissioner of the State or Settlement as Chairman and such ex officio Members, Nominated Official Members, Nominated Unofficial Members, and Elected Members as may be prescribed.

49.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, it shall be lawful for a State Council or Settlement Council to make laws on any subject—
(a) which is declared by Order of the Governor in Council to be of a purely local nature in the State or Settlement; or
(b) in respect to which the Legislative Council shall have delegated powers of legislation to the State Council or Settlement Council concerned.

(2) Any law passed by a State Council or Settlement Council may, at any time, be repealed or altered by the Legislature of the Union, and shall, without any formal repeal, be void so far as it is repugnant to any law passed by such Legislature or to any proclamation, rule, regulation, by-law or order lawfully made under any such law.

(3) A State Council or Settlement Council shall exercise such powers of local administration as may from time to time be prescribed or allocated to it by the Governor in Council.

50. The Nominated Official Members of any State Council or Settlement Council shall be persons holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, and the Nominated Unofficial Members shall be persons not holding such office. Nominated Members shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

51. The Elected Members shall be persons not holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union and shall be elected in the manner prescribed.

===== Page 37 =====
Summoning of persons other than Members.

52. The Resident Commissioner may summon to any meeting of a State or Settlement Council any person, notwithstanding that such person may not be a Member of the Council, when, in the opinion of the Resident Commissioner, the business before the Council renders the presence of such person desirable. Any person so summoned shall be entitled to take part in the proceedings of the Council relating to the business in respect of which he is summoned as if he were a member of the Council, except that he shall not have the right to vote in the Council.

Tenure of office of Nominated Members.

53.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, a person appointed a Nominated Member shall vacate his seat at the expiration of three years from the date of his appointment, or on the dissolution of the Council, whichever is earlier, but may, if qualified, be again appointed from time to time.

(2) If any person is appointed a Temporary Member of a State Council or Settlement Council in accordance with the provisions of Section 59 of this Order and such appointment is immediately followed by his definitive appointment as a Nominated Member, the said period of three years shall be reckoned from the date of his appointment as a Temporary Member.

Tenure of Office of Elected Members.

54. Subject to the provisions of this Order, a person elected as an Elected Member shall vacate his seat at the expiration of three years from the date of his election or on dissolution of the Council, whichever is earlier, but may, if qualified, be again elected from time to time.

Qualifications for elected and nominated membership.

55. Subject to the provisions of this Order any person who is of the age of twenty-one years or upwards and who, the Governor is satisfied, is able to speak and (unless incapacitated by blindness or other physical cause) to read and write the English, or the Malay, language with a degree of proficiency sufficient to enable him to take an active part in the proceedings of the Council and who, in the case of a State Council, is a Malayan Union citizen, or, in the case of a Settlement Council, is a Malayan Union citizen or a British subject, shall be qualified to be a Nominated or an Elected Member of a State Council or Settlement Council, as the case may be, and no other person shall be qualified to be appointed or elected thereto, or, having been so appointed, or elected, shall sit or vote in such Council.

Disqualification for Membership.

56.—(1) A person shall be disqualified for nominated membership of any State Council or Settlement Council for any reason which would cause disqualification for Membership of the Legislative Council under the provisions of section 20 of this Order.

Provided that sub-section (4) of section 20 shall have effect for the purpose of this sub-section as if the words "or with the Government of any State or Settlement within the Union," had been inserted before the words "for or on account of the public service," where those words appear in that sub-section.

(2) A person shall be disqualified for Elected Membership of a State Council or Settlement Council for any reason which would cause disqualification for Membership of the Legislative Council under paragraph (1), (2) or (3) of section 20 of this Order, or

(a) if, being a party to, or a member of a firm or director or manager of a company which is a party to, any subsisting contract with the Government of, or with the Government of any State or Settlement

===== Page 38 =====
Within the Union, for or on account of the public service, or being otherwise interested in any such contract, he shall not have published within one month before the day of election, in the Gazette or in some newspaper circulating in the State or Settlement in which he seeks election, a notice setting out the nature of such contract and his interest, or the interest of such firm or company, therein; or

(b) if he is disqualified for membership of the Council under any prescribed provision for the time being in force in the State or Settlement concerned relating to offences connected with the election of Members.

57.—(1) The seat of a Nominated Member of a State Council or Settlement Council shall become vacant upon the occurrence of any event which, if he were an Official Member or Unofficial Member as the case may be, of the Legislative Council, and the State or Settlement Council were the Legislative Council, would cause the seat of such Member to become vacant under the provisions of sub-section (3) of section 21 of this Order: Provided that paragraph (c) of sub-section (3) of section 21 shall have effect for the purpose of this sub-section as if for the words "if appointed under the proviso to section 19" there were substituted the words "in the case of a member of a Settlement Council".

(2) The seat of an Elected Member of a State or Settlement Council shall become vacant upon the occurrence of any event which if he were a Nominated Member of any such Council would cause his seat to become vacant under the provisions of sub-section (1) of this section, or if such Elected Member is disqualified for membership of the Council, under any prescribed provision for the time being in force in the State or Settlement concerned relating to offences connected with the election of Members.

(3) If an Unofficial Member or Elected Member shall be appointed temporarily to, or to act in, any office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, he shall not sit or vote in the Council so long as he continues to hold, or act in that office.

(4) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Nominated Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the State Council or Settlement Council concerned and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared, in manner aforesaid, again to be capable of discharging his said functions.

(5) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, suspend any Nominated Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the State Council or Settlement Council concerned. Every such suspension shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the State Council or Settlement Council concerned.

(6) Whenever the seat of a Member becomes vacant under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of this section, the vacancy shall forthwith be reported to the Governor in writing by the Clerk of the Council concerned.

===== Page 39 =====
Decision of questions as to Membership.

58.—(1) All questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain a Nominated Member of a State Council or Settlement Council shall be referred to and decided by the Governor in Council.

(2) All questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain an Elected Member shall be determined as may be prescribed.

Temporary Appointments.

59.—(1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in any State Council or Settlement Council as ex officio Members, or Nominated Official Members, or Nominated Unofficial Members, by reason of the fact that:

(a) an ex officio Member is lawfully discharging the functions of the Resident Commissioner; or

(b) one person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the ex officio Members; or

(c) a Nominated Member is lawfully discharging the functions of the office of Resident Commissioner or of an ex officio Member; or

(d) no person is lawfully discharging the functions of the office of an ex officio Member; or

(e) a Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or

(f) a Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in this Order, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or

(g) a Member is absent from the Union; or

(h) a Nominated Unofficial Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of his having been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union or to act in any such office;

the Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint a person to be a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) If the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Nominated Official Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as a Nominated Official Member; and if the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Nominated Unofficial Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as a Nominated Unofficial Member.

(3) Every person appointed to be a Temporary Member under this section shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Nominated Official Members, an Official Member;

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Nominated Unofficial Members, a Nominated Unofficial Member;

and, subject to the provisions of this section, the provisions of sections 53 and 57 of this Order shall apply accordingly:

Provided that in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed

===== Page 40 =====
Shall not be regarded as an Official Member in computing the number of such Members prescribed in accordance with section 48 of this Order.

(4) Any appointment under this section may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment under this section shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of revocation of the appointment or when the vacancy shall cease to exist.

60. The Resident Commissioner, if present, shall preside at meetings of the State Council or Settlement Council and, in his absence, such Member of the Council as he may, in writing, appoint, or in the absence of that Member, or if no Member be so appointed, the Senior Member present shall preside.

61. After the Resident Commissioner, the Members of each State Council and Settlement Council shall take precedence among themselves as the Governor may specially assign, and in the absence of such assignment, as follows:

First, the ex officio Members in such order as may be prescribed;

Secondly, the Nominated Official Members definitively appointed, according to the priority of their appointments as such or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Resident Commissioner;

Thirdly, the Nominated Official Members temporarily appointed under section 59 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments, or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Resident Commissioner;

Fourthly, the Nominated Unofficial Members and Elected Members, according to the length of time during which they have been continuously Members of the Council; Members elected or appointed at the same time taking precedence among themselves as the Resident Commissioner may assign.

(2) For the purposes of this section—

(a) when the State Council or Settlement Council is dissolved, Members elected at the ensuing elections shall be deemed to have been elected by virtue of those elections, and Nominated Unofficial Members appointed to fill vacancies caused thereby shall be deemed to have been appointed, on the date on which the report of the first successful candidate for election is made to the Governor;

(b) paragraph (a) of this sub-section shall apply to the Members elected or appointed to a State Council or Settlement Council as first constituted under this Order as if such elections or appointments were consequent upon a dissolution of the Council; and

(c) in ascertaining the period during which a person has continuously been an Elected Member or a Nominated Unofficial Member of the Council no account shall be taken of any interval between the vacation by that person of his seat in the Council in consequence of the expiration of his tenure of office or a dissolution of the Council and the date of his re-election or re-appointment to fill a vacancy in the Council caused by that expiration of tenure or that dissolution.

===== Page 41 =====
Filling of vacancies.

62.—(1) Whenever the seat of a Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member becomes vacant, the vacancy shall be filled by appointment by the Governor.

(2) Whenever the seat of an Elected Member becomes vacant, a fresh election shall be held to fill the vacancy in accordance with such provisions as may be prescribed.

Voting.

63. Save as otherwise provided in this Order, all questions proposed for decision in the Council shall be determined by a majority of the votes of the Members present and voting. The Resident Commissioner shall not have an original vote, but if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, he shall have a casting vote. In the absence of the Resident Commissioner, the Member presiding shall have an original vote and also, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, a casting vote.

Assent to Bills. Disallowance of laws.

64. The provisions of sections 30 and 31 of this Order (which relate respectively to assent to Bills and disallowances of laws passed by the Legislative Council) shall apply to Bills and to laws passed by a State Council or Settlement Council.

Royal Instructions.

65. Subject to the provisions of this Order each State Council or Settlement Council shall, in the transaction of business and the passing of laws, conform as nearly as may be to the directions contained in any Instructions under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet which may from time to time be addressed to the Governor, and to any instructions of the Governor under the Public Seal which may from time to time be addressed to the Resident Commissioner, in that behalf.

Standing Orders.

66. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of such Instructions as aforesaid, each State Council or Settlement Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its own proceedings and the conduct of business and for the passing, instituting and numbering of Bills, and for the presentation thereof to the Governor for his assent, but no such Rules or Orders shall have effect unless and until they shall have been approved by the Governor.

Official Language.

67. The official languages of each State Council and Settlement Council shall be Malay and English.

Quorum.

68. No business except that of adjournment shall be transacted by a State or Settlement Council if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than one quarter of the Members present besides the Resident Commissioner or Member presiding.

Introduction of Bills.

69. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council, any Member may introduce any Bill or propose any motion for debate in, or may present any petition to, a State Council or Settlement Council, and the same shall be debated and disposed of according to the Standing Rules and Orders:

Provided that, except with the recommendation or consent of the Resident Commissioner signified thereto, the Council shall not proceed upon any Bill, amendment, motion or petition, which, in the opinion of the Resident Commissioner or of the presiding Member, would—

(a) dispose of, or charge any public revenue or public funds of the State or Settlement, or revoke or alter any disposition thereof or charge thereon, or impose, alter, or repeal any rate, tax or duty; or

===== Page 42 =====
(b) Suspend the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council or any of them.

70. The sessions of each State Council or Settlement Council shall be held at such times and places as the Resident Commissioner shall from time to time by Proclamation appoint. There shall be a session of the Council at least once every year, so that a period of twelve months shall not intervene between the last sitting in one Session and the first sitting in the next Session.

71.—(i) The Resident Commissioner may at any time, by Proclamation, prorogue or dissolve a State Council or Settlement Council.

(2) On dissolution, all Members shall vacate their seats and the Council shall be reconstituted by election and appointment in accordance with the provisions of this Order at such time, within three months of every dissolution, as the Governor shall by Proclamation appoint.

PART VIII.

SULTAN'S ADVISORY COUNCILS.

72. There shall be established for each of the Malay States a Council to be called the Sultan's Advisory Council.

73. Each Sultan's Advisory Council shall consist of the Sultan as President and such Members as the Sultan shall from time to time appoint.

74. The functions of each Sultan's Advisory Council shall be—
(a) to advise the Sultan on all matters affecting Muhammadan religion in the State;
(b) to advise the Sultan in the making of laws under this Part of this Order;
(c) to advise the Sultan on all matters which are referred to the Council by the Sultan or at the request of the Resident Commissioner with the approval of the Governor.

75.—(i) Subject to the provisions of this Order, it shall be lawful for the Sultan of each of the Malay States, with the advice of the Sultan's Advisory Council of such State, to make laws the provisions of which relate solely to matters of Muhammadan religion and do not involve the imposition, collection or remission of any tax or tithe.
(2) Such laws shall have effect only within the State concerned.

(3) When any such Bill has been approved by a Sultan's Advisory Council, it shall be submitted to the Council of Sultans for approval by that Council pursuant to the provisions of section 40 of this Order. No Bill enacted by a Sultan with the advice of a Sultan's Advisory Council shall become a law until it shall have been approved by the Council of Sultans and assented to by the Sultan of the State concerned pursuant to the provisions of that section.

(4) A law assented to by the Sultan shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the date of such publication, or if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

===== Page 43 =====
Qualifications for Membership.

76. Subject to the provisions of this Order, any person who is of Malay race, professing the Muhammadan religion, and of the age of twenty-one years or upwards shall be qualified to be a Member of a Sultan's Advisory Council, and no other person shall be qualified to be so appointed or, having been so appointed, shall sit or vote in such Council.

Disqualification for Membership.

77. A person shall be disqualified for membership of a Sultan's Advisory Council for any reason which would cause disqualification for Membership of the Legislative Council under the provisions of paragraphs (1), (2) or (3) of section 20 of this Order.

Tenure of Office.

78. Subject to the provisions of this Order, a Member of a Sultan's Advisory Council shall hold his seat in the Council during the pleasure of the Sultan of the State.

Presiding in Sultan's Advisory Councils.

79. The Sultan of the State concerned, if present, shall preside at meetings of the Sultan's Advisory Council and, in his absence, such Member of the Council as he may, in writing appoint, or in the absence of that Member or if no Member be so appointed, the senior Member present shall preside.

Precedence of Members.

80. The Members of each Sultan's Advisory Council shall take precedence among themselves as the Sultan of the State concerned may assign.

Conflict.

81. In the event of any conflict between a law made under this Part and a law made under Part V, or Part VII or made or continued under Part IX, of this Order, the provisions of the last mentioned law shall prevail.

Standing Orders.

82. Subject to the provisions of this Order, each Sultan's Advisory Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its own proceedings and the conduct of business and for the passing, intitulating and numbering of Bills, and for the presentation thereof to the Sultan for his assent.

Official language.

83. The official language of each Sultan's Advisory Council shall be Malay.

Sessions.

84.—(1) The Sessions of each Sultan's Advisory Council shall be held at such times and places as the Sultan shall from time to time appoint.

(2) There shall be a session of the Council once at least in every year.

PART IX.

TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS.

Governor may make laws.

85.—(1) Until such time as Parts IV and V of this Order shall come into operation, it shall be lawful for the Governor to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Union.

(2) In making such laws the Governor shall consult the Advisory Council.

(3) Section 31 of this Order shall apply to any law made under this Section as it applies to a law assented to by the Governor.

===== Page 44 =====
86.—(1) There shall be an Advisory Council which shall consist of the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary and such other persons as the Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint; and such persons shall hold their places in the said Council during the Governor's pleasure.

(2) The Governor alone shall be entitled to submit questions to the Advisory Council for their advice. The Governor may act in opposition to the advice given to him by the Members of the Advisory Council if he shall in any case consider it right so to do. In such case, it shall be competent to any Member of the Advisory Council to require that there be recorded on the Minutes any advice or opinion he may give upon the question and the grounds therefor.

(3) The Governor may regulate the procedure and practice of the Advisory Council in such manner as he shall see fit.

(4) The Governor may, by Proclamation in the Gazette, declare that this section shall cease to have effect, and thereupon this section shall cease to have effect accordingly on the date specified in the Proclamation.

87.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, the existing laws shall, except in so far as the same shall, in their application to the Union or to any part thereof, be repealed, amended or otherwise affected by or under any Act of Parliament, Order of His Majesty in Council or any law made under the provisions of this Order continue to have effect in the Union or, as the case may be, in that part thereof to which such law applied prior to the appointed day, but shall be construed subject to such modifications as may be necessary to bring them into conformity with the provisions of this Order.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section, the existing laws shall, except as aforesaid, in their application to any part of the Union, be construed, when the context admits, subject to the following modifications:

(a) references to the Colony of the Straits Settlements shall be construed as referring (but not exclusively) to the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang;

(b) references to the Federated Malay States shall be construed as references to the States of Negri Sembilan, Pahang, Perak and Selangor;

(c) references to the Governor or Governor in Council of the Colony of the Straits Settlements, or to the High Commissioner of the Malay States or to the Ruler of any Malay State or to any officer of, or authority, or body constituted in or for, the Straits Settlements or the Federated Malay States or any of the Malay States, shall be construed as references to the Governor or Governor in Council, or to the corresponding officer of, or authority or body constituted in or for the Union, as the case may be; and

(d) references to the Chief Justice or to any Court, Judge or Magistrate of the Straits Settlements or of the Federated Malay States or of any of the Malay States shall be construed as references to the Chief Justice or to the corresponding Court, Judge or Magistrate of the Union.

(3) The adaptations and modifications specified in the second column of the Second Schedule to this Order shall be made in the enactments mentioned in the first column of that Schedule.

===== Page 45 =====
(4) The enactments described in the First Schedule to the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890, shall apply to the Union as if the whole of the Union were a British Colony or Possession, but subject to the provisions of this Order and to the exceptions, adaptations, and modifications following, that is to say:

(i) The Governor is hereby substituted for the Governor of a Colony or British Possession, and the Supreme Court is hereby substituted for a Superior Court or Supreme Court, and for a Magistrate or Justice of the Peace, of a Colony or British Possession.

(ii) For the portions of the Merchant Shipping Acts, 1854 and 1867, referred to in the said Schedule, shall be substituted Part XIII of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894.

(iii) In section 51 of the Conveyancing (Scotland) Act, 1874, and any enactment for the time being in force amending the same, the High Court is substituted for a Court of Probate in a Colony.

(iv) For the purposes of Part II of the Fugitive Offenders Act, 1881, the Union, the Colony of Singapore, Sarawak, Brunei, North Borneo and Labuan shall be deemed to be one group of British possessions:

Provided that nothing in this sub-section contained shall be taken to extend to the Union the enactments mentioned in the Schedule to the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1913, or any of them.

(5) Where under the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894, or any amending Act, anything is authorised to be done by, to, or before a British Consular Officer, such thing may be done, in any place in the Union at which there is no Consular officer, by, to, or before such officer of the Government of the Union as the Governor may appoint.

(6) The Colonial Prisoners Removal Act, 1884, shall apply to and take effect within the Union as if the whole of the Union were a British Possession and part of His Majesty's dominions, subject as follows:

The Governor is hereby substituted for the Governor of a British Possession.

Validity of previous acts.

88. Subject to the express provisions of this Order, nothing in this Order shall affect the validity or future operation of any lawful act done in any territory now comprised in the Union by any person or authority before the appointed day.

Pending proceedings.

89. All proceedings commenced before the 15th day of February, 1942, in any Court of Justice in, or having jurisdiction in, any territory now comprised in the Union may be carried on in like manner as nearly as may be, as if this Order and the Act of 1946, had not been made or passed but in the corresponding Court of the Union, and any such proceeding may be amended in such manner as may appear necessary or proper in order to bring it into conformity with the provisions of this Order.

Crimes committed and causes of action arising prior to the appointed day.

90. Courts constituted for the Union shall have, within their respective powers, jurisdiction with respect to all offences (including offences against Proclamations issued by, or under the authority of, the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia) and causes of action committed or arising before the appointed day for which the accused might have been tried, or proceedings might have been had, within any of the Malay [POSSIBLY MISSING]

===== Page 46 =====
Malayan Order in Council 85-86(2)

===== Page 47 =====
States or within either of the Settlements under the law (including the provisions of any such Proclamation) in force in the said State or in the Straits Settlements before the appointed day, and such jurisdiction shall be exercised in conformity with the law in force in the State or Settlement concerned at the date when the offence was committed or the cause of action arose and in accordance, as nearly as may be, with the procedure in force in Courts constituted under this Order.

91. Military Courts established in the Malay States or the Settlements by the British Military Administration by virtue of any Proclamation made by, or under the authority of the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia, in which proceedings have been commenced and are pending at the date of this Order shall be deemed to be lawfully constituted Courts with jurisdiction to continue and conclude such proceedings and to issue warrants for the custody of prisoners and the carrying out of sentences in accordance with such Proclamation and any Rules, Regulations or Orders made thereunder, after the appointed day. The powers and functions of a confirming authority or reviewing authority under any such Proclamation may be exercised by such person or persons as the Governor shall designate in that behalf.

92.—(1) In this section—

(i) "Malay States property" means property which, immediately before the appointed day, was vested in or was in the possession, or under the control or held on account of His Majesty, or the Ruler of any of the Malay States, or the Government of the Federated Malay States, or the Government of any of the Malay States, or any officer of any such Government for any of the purposes of any such Government;

(ii) "Straits Settlements property" means property which, immediately before the appointed day, was vested in, or was in the possession, or under the control, or held on account of His Majesty, or the Government of the Straits Settlements, or any officer of that Government, for any of the purposes of that Government; and

(iii) Any reference to property vested in any person or authority shall be construed as including a reference to any property in the possession, or under the control, or held on account, of that person or authority; and any direction that property shall be vested in any person or authority shall likewise be construed as including a direction, as the case may require, that the possession or control of property shall be transferred to, or that property shall be held on account of, that person or authority.

(2) Save as in this section otherwise provided, all Malay States property shall, as from the appointed day, vest in His Majesty, or in the appropriate officer of the Government of the Union, or in the person or body prescribed under sub-section (7) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Union.

(3) Save as in this section otherwise provided, all Straits Settlements property which was, immediately before the appointed day, either—

(a) immovable property situate in the Settlements or either of them; or

(b) vested solely for a purpose of the Government of the Straits Settlements which will, after the appointed day, be a purpose of the

===== Page 48 =====
Government of the Union in relation to the Settlements or either of them; shall vest in His Majesty or the appropriate officer of the Government of the Union, or the person or body prescribed under sub-section (7) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Union.

(4) Save as in this section otherwise provided, any Straits Settlements property which was, immediately before the appointed day, vested for any purpose of the Government of the Straits Settlements which was common to the Settlements or either of them and to any other territory formerly included in the Straits Settlements but not included in the Union, shall be apportioned between the Union and such territory by agreement between the Governor and the Governor of such territory with the approval of a Secretary of State; or, in default of such agreement, shall be apportioned by order of a Secretary of State. Any such agreement or order may contain provisions for the assessment of values, for the perfecting of any transfer of property mentioned therein and for financial and other adjustments, and may contain such other provisions as may be considered necessary or expedient for carrying the apportionment into effect.

(5) Any Straits Settlements property apportioned to the Union under sub-section (4) of this section shall be vested in His Majesty or the appropriate officer of the Government of the Union, or the person or body prescribed under sub-section (7) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Union; and the Governor may make such vesting or other orders as may be considered necessary or expedient for carrying the provisions of this Section into effect, and for such purpose may appoint and empower persons to transfer property.

(6) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, any property which, immediately before the appointed day, was vested in the Ruler of any of the Malay States for any of the following purposes, shall continue to be vested in the Sultan of the State for the same purposes, that is to say—

(a) any property held by, or in trust for, or for the benefit of a Ruler for his official or personal use; or

(b) any building or land used for purposes of the Muhammadan religion, or property pertaining to the endowment of Muhammadan religious institutions;

and nothing in this section shall affect the use or enjoyment of any property vested in a Ruler or in His Majesty for any of the said purposes.

(7) The Governor may make regulations for determining, in cases of doubt, the person or body in whom property affected by this section shall be vested, and generally for giving effect to this section, and may, by Order, exclude any particular property from the operation of this section, or declare, for the removal of doubt, whether and in what manner, any particular property is affected thereby.

93.—(1) All liabilities incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Federated Malay States or of the Government of any of the Malay States for any of the purposes of any such Government shall be deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Union.

===== Page 49 =====
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section—

(a) Such liabilities shall include claims in respect of Loans issued, and Post Office Savings Bank deposits received, by the Government of the Federated Malay States or the Government of any of the Malay States.

(b) Claims to pensions, gratuities and other like allowances in respect of service under the Government of the Federated Malay States or the Government of any of the Malay States before the appointed day, whether arising before or after that day, shall be liabilities deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Union.

(3) All liabilities incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Straits Settlements solely for a purpose which will, after the appointed day, be a purpose of the Government of the Union in relation to the Settlements or either of them shall be deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Union.

(4) It shall be lawful for the Governor, with the approval of a Secretary of State, to make, vary, rescind and carry into effect, arrangements with the Governor of any territory formerly included in the Straits Settlements but not included in the Union for the payment to the Government of that territory from the funds of the Government of the Union, of contribution towards the sums necessary to defray such of the liabilities of the Government of the Straits Settlements as shall have been transferred, by any Order in Council or otherwise, to the Government of that territory, including liabilities for the service and repayment of Loans and War Savings Certificates issued, Post Office Savings Bank Deposits received and pensions allowances and gratuities payable, by the Government of the Straits Settlements. Such contributions shall be proportionate to the share of such liabilities which, a Secretary of State is satisfied, is properly attributable to the Settlements.

(5) Claims in respect of liabilities deemed, by virtue of this section, to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Union which, if the Act of 1946 had not been passed and this Order had not been made, might have been enforced against His Majesty in His Government of the Straits Settlements, or against the Government of the Federated Malay States or of any of the Malay States or against any officer of any such Government in his official capacity or against any department of any such Government in connection with the administration of the Settlements or either of them or of the Federated Malay States or of any Malay State, may be enforced in such manner as may be prescribed by laws for the time being in force or by any regulation made by the Governor under sub-section (6) of this section, against His Majesty in His Government of the Union or against the Government or the appropriate officer of the Government of the Union, as the case may be.

(6) The Governor may make regulations for determining in any case of doubt the person or body by or against whom claims may be enforced under this section and generally for giving effect thereto.

94. The provisions of sections 88 to 93 inclusive of this Order may be amended by laws made under Part V or under section 85 of this Order.

===== Page 50 =====
PART X.

MISCELLANEOUS.

Oath of Allegiance.

95. Except for the purpose of enabling this section to be complied with, no Member shall sit or vote on any Council constituted under Section 13 and Parts IV and VII of this Order until he shall have taken and subscribed before the Governor, or some person authorised by the Governor in that behalf, the Oath of Allegiance in the form set out in the First Schedule to this Order:

Provided that every person authorised by law to make an affirmation instead of taking an oath in legal proceedings may make such affirmation in like terms instead of the said oath.

Provisions necessary to give effect to the Order.

96.—(1) Provision may be made by laws made under this Order and, until such provision has been so made, by regulations made by the Governor, regulating any matter which by this Order or by Instructions under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet is to be prescribed.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section, provision may be made regulating the election of Elected Members to any State Council or Settlement Council constituted by this Order including provision for regulating any of the following matters, that is to say:

(a) the persons, associations or bodies by whom Members are to be elected;
(b) the holding of elections;
(c) the qualifications of voters;
(d) the registration of voters;
(e) the ascertainment of the qualifications of voters and candidates;
(f) offences in relation to elections including the trial and punishment thereof; and
(g) the disposal of election petitions and the determination of questions otherwise arising regarding membership of the Councils.

(3) Such regulations shall be published in the Gazette; and thereafter every such regulation shall take effect on the day of publication or on such other day as may be therein specified and shall have the force of law.

Unqualified persons sitting or voting.

97. Any person who—

(a) having been elected or appointed a member of any Council constituted by this Order, but not having been at the time of such election or appointment, qualified to be so elected or appointed, shall sit or vote in such Council; or

(b) shall sit or vote in such Council after his seat therein has become vacant or he has become disqualified from sitting or voting therein; knowing, or having reasonable grounds for knowing, that he was disqualified, or that his seat has become vacant, as the case may be, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding two hundred dollars for every day upon which he so sits or votes.

(2) The said penalty shall be recoverable by action in the Supreme Court at the suit of the Attorney General.

===== Page 51 =====
98. No Council constituted by this Order shall be disqualified from the transaction of business by reason of any vacancy among the Members, or by reason of the sitting or voting therein of any unqualified or disqualified person.

99. For the avoidance of doubts it is hereby declared that any law or regulation made under this Order may be made to operate retrospectively to any date.

100.—(1) If any difficulty shall arise in bringing into operation any of the provisions of this Order or in giving effect to the purposes thereof, a Secretary of State may, by Order, make such provision as seems to him necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing the difficulty and may by such Order amend or add to any provision of this Order:

Provided that no Order under this section shall be made later than the first day of January, 1948:

(2) Any Order under this section may be amended, added to, or revoked by a further Order, and may be given retrospective effect to a day not earlier than the appointed day.

101. Nothing in this Order shall affect the power of His Majesty in Council to make laws from time to time for the peace, order and good government of the Union.

E. C. E. Leadbitter.

FIRST SCHEDULE.
OATH OF ALLEGIANCE.
(Sections 6 and 95).

I, ... do swear that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to His Majesty King George VI, His Heirs and Successors, according to Law. So help me God.

OATH FOR THE DUE EXECUTION
OF THE OFFICE OF GOVERNOR.

I, ... do swear that I will well and truly serve His Majesty King George VI, His Heirs and Successors, in the Office of Governor. So help me God.

THE SECOND SCHEDULE.
(Section 87 (3)).
Adaptation of Acts of Parliament.

Title of Act. | Adaptation.
--- | ---
The Finance Act, 1922 | Subsection (2) of section 45 of the Act shall have effect as if the words "Negri Sembilan, Pahang, Perak, Selangor" were substituted for the words "the Federated Malay States and" in line two.
The Pensions (Governors of Dominions, etc.) Act, 1929. | Section 9 of the Act shall have effect as if the words "Malayan Union" were substituted for the words "Malay States" in the last line.

Printed by His Majesty's STATIONERY OFFICE PRESS,
Drury Lane, W.C.2.

===== Page 52 =====
SINGAPORE

Instructions passed under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet to the Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Colony of Singapore.

Dated 27th March, 1946. GEORGE, R.I.

INSTRUCTIONS to Our Governor and Commander-in-Chief in and over Our Colony of Singapore, or to any other officer for the time being administering the Government of Our said Colony.

WHEREAS by the Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946 (hereinafter called "the Order in Council") We have ordered and declared that as from the appointed day there shall be a Governor and Commander-in-Chief (in the Order in Council and hereinafter called "the Governor") in and over Our Colony of Singapore (in the Order in Council and hereinafter called "the Colony"):

AND WHEREAS We have by the Order in Council empowered and commanded the Governor to do all things that belong to his said office in accordance with the Order in Council and such Commission as may be issued to him under Our Sign Manual and Signet and according to such Instructions as may from time to time be given to him under Our Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, and such Orders in Council and other laws as may from time to time be in force in the Colony:

AND WHEREAS We are minded to issue these Our Instructions under Our Sign Manual and Signet for the guidance of the Governor and any other Officer who may administer the Government of the Colony:

NOW, THEREFORE, as from the appointed day, We do hereby direct and enjoin and declare Our Will and pleasure as follows:

1. The Governor may, whenever he thinks fit, require any person in the public service of the Colony to take the Oath of Allegiance in the form prescribed by the Order in Council, together with such other oath or oaths as may from time to time be prescribed by any laws in force in the Colony. The Governor is to administer such oaths or cause them to be administered by some public officer of the Colony.

2. Whenever there is a subsisting appointment of a Deputy to the Governor under the Order in Council, these Instructions, so far as they apply to any matter or thing to be done, or any powers or functions to be exercised or performed by such Deputy, shall be deemed to be addressed to and shall be observed by such Deputy.

3. The Executive Council of the Colony shall consist of the Governor as Chairman, four ex officio members, that is to say the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary and the President of the Municipal Commissioners, Singapore, together with two members (hereinafter called Official Members) holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony and four members (hereinafter called Unofficial Members) not holding such office to be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of instructions from Us through a Secretary of State.

===== Page 53 =====
4. (1) Subject to the provisions of the Order in Council, every Official or Unofficial Member of the Executive Council shall hold his seat in Council during Our pleasure, and, subject thereto, for three years from the date of the Instrument by which he is appointed, or until such earlier date as may be provided by that Instrument or upon which his seat shall become vacant under the provisions of these Instructions.

If any person is appointed to be a Temporary Member of the Council and his temporary appointment is immediately followed by his definitive appointment, the said period of three years shall be reckoned from the date of the Instrument by which he is temporarily appointed.

(2) The seat of a Member of the Executive Council shall become vacant—
(a) upon his death; or
(b) if, being an Official Member, he shall cease to hold office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony; or
(c) if, being an Unofficial Member, he shall be appointed permanently to any such office; or
(d) if he shall by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor, resign his seat on the Executive Council; or
(e) if he shall be absent from the Colony without written permission from the Governor:

Provided that a member shall not be deemed to be absent from the Colony for the purposes of this paragraph by reason only of absence in the Malayan Union for a period not exceeding one month.

(3) Any person vacating a seat as a Member of the Executive Council may, if qualified, be again appointed from time to time.

(4) If an Unofficial Member be appointed temporarily to any office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony or to act in any such office, he shall not sit as an Unofficial Member of the Executive Council so long as he continues to hold or act in that office.

(5) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, suspend any Official or Unofficial Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the Executive Council. Every such suspension shall forthwith be reported by the Governor to Us through a Secretary of State and shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal, or by Us through a Secretary of State, or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the Executive Council.

(6) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Official or Unofficial Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council, and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared in manner aforesaid, to be again capable of discharging his said functions.

5. (1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council by reason of the fact that—
(a) an ex officio or Official Member is administering the Government of the Colony; or
(b) one person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the four officers specified in Clause 3 of these Instructions; or

===== Page 54 =====
(c) No person is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or

(d) A Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or

(e) The seat of a Member is vacant for any cause; or

(f) A Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in these Instructions, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or

(g) A Member is absent from the Colony; or

(h) An Unofficial Member has been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony or to act in any such office;

a person may be appointed a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) The said person shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal and—

(a) In the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as ex officio or Official Members, shall be a person holding office or emolument under the Crown in the Colony; and

(b) In the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as Unofficial Members, shall be a person not holding any such office.

(3) Every person so appointed shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—

(a) In the case of a vacancy in the number of Members sitting in the Executive Council as ex officio Members or as Official Members, an Official Member;

(b) In the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as Unofficial Members, an Unofficial Member; and, subject to the provisions of this clause, the provisions of Clause 4 of these Instructions shall apply accordingly:

Provided that, in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed shall not be regarded as an Official Member in computing the number of such Members for purposes of Clause 3 of these Instructions.

(4) The Governor shall forthwith report every such temporary appointment to Us through a Secretary of State. Any such appointment may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be disallowed by Us through a Secretary of State or revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment under this clause shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of disallowance by Us or of revocation by the Governor, or on supersession of the appointment by the definitive appointment of a person to fill the vacancy, or when the vacancy shall otherwise cease to exist.

===== Page 55 =====
6. The Members of the Executive Council shall take precedence as we may specially assign and, in the absence of such assignment, as follows:

First, the ex officio Members in the order in which they are specified in Clause 3 of these Instructions;

Secondly, the Official Members according to the priority of their appointments as Official Members, or, if appointed on the same day, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor;

Thirdly, the Official Members temporarily appointed under Clause 5 in such order as may be assigned by the Governor;

Fourthly, the Unofficial Members in order according to the dates when they were first appointed to be Members, or Temporary Members as the case may be, of the Executive Council, and, in the case of more than one appointment on the same day, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor or, in the absence of such assignment, according to the alphabetical order of their surnames:

Provided that, where a Member is re-appointed to fill a vacancy caused by the termination of his own term of office, the date from which he has been continuously a Member of the Council (any interval between such termination and re-appointment being disregarded) shall be regarded as the date of his appointment for the purpose of this clause.

7. (1) The Executive Council shall not be summoned except by the authority of the Governor.

(2) The Executive Council shall not be disqualified for the transaction of business by reason of any vacancy among the Members; but no business except that of adjournment shall be transacted if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than three Members present besides the Governor or Member presiding.

8. The Governor shall, so far as is practicable, attend and preside at all meetings of the Executive Council, and, in his absence, such Member as the Governor may appoint or, in the absence of such Member or if no Member be so appointed, the Senior Member of the Council actually present shall preside.

9. The Governor shall consult with the Executive Council in the execution of all powers and authorities conferred upon him, except in cases—

(a) which are of such a nature that, in his judgment, Our service would sustain material prejudice by consulting the Council thereupon; or

(b) in which the matters to be decided shall be too unimportant to require their advice; or

(c) in which the matters are too urgent to admit of their advice being given by the time within which it may be necessary for him to act.

In every case falling within paragraph (c) of this clause, he shall, as soon as practicable, communicate to the Council the measures which he shall have adopted with the reasons therefor.

===== Page 56 =====
10. The Governor shall alone be entitled to submit questions to the Executive Council; but if the Governor declines to submit any question to the Council when requested in writing by any Member so to do, it shall be competent to such Member to require that there be recorded upon the Minutes his written application together with the answer returned by the Governor thereto.

11. The Governor may act in opposition to the advice given to him by Members of the Executive Council, if in any case it shall in his judgment be right so to do; but in any such case he shall, at the first convenient opportunity, fully report the matter to Us through a Secretary of State with the reasons for his action. In every such case it shall be competent to any Member of the Council to require that there be recorded upon the Minutes any advice or opinion that he may give upon the question and the grounds therefor.

12. The Governor shall forthwith communicate to the Executive Council these Our Instructions and all such others as, from time to time, We may direct or he shall find convenient for Our service to impart to them.

13. Minutes shall be kept of all the proceedings of the Executive Council and of the Legislative Council. At every meeting of each Council the Minutes of the last preceding meeting shall be confirmed, with or without amendment as the case may require, before proceeding to the dispatch of any other business. Twice in each year a full transcript of all Minutes of each Council for the preceding half-year shall be transmitted to Us through a Secretary of State.

14. In the making of laws the Governor and the Legislative Council shall observe, as far as practicable, the following Rules:

(1) All laws shall be styled "Ordinances" and the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor of the Colony of Singapore, with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council":

Provided that in the case of:

(a) any law made by the Governor under section 40 of the Order in Council, the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor of the Colony of Singapore in accordance with the provisions of section 40 of the Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946"; and

(b) in the case of any law having effect by virtue of a declaration made by the Governor under section 30 of the Order in Council, the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor in accordance with the provisions of section 30 of the Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946".

(2) All Ordinances shall be distinguished by titles, and shall be divided into successive sections consecutively numbered, and to every section there shall be annexed in the margin a short indication of its contents. The Ordinances enacted in each year shall be designated by consecutive numbers, commencing in each year with the number one.

===== Page 57 =====
(3) Each different matter shall be provided for by a different Ordinance without intermixing in one and the same Ordinance such things as have no proper relation to each other. No provision shall be inserted in any Ordinance which shall be foreign to what the title of such Ordinance imports; and no permanent provision shall be included in any temporary Ordinance.

Certain Bills not to be assented to without instructions.

15. (1) Save as hereinafter mentioned, the Governor shall not, without having previously obtained instructions through a Secretary of State, assent to any Bill within any of the following classes, unless such Bill contain a clause suspending the operation thereof until the signification in the Colony of Our pleasure thereon, that is to say:

(1) Any Bill for the divorce of married persons:

(2) Any Bill whereby any grant of land or money, or other donation or gratuity, may be made to himself:

(3) Any Bill affecting the currency of the Colony, or relating to the issue of Bank Notes:

(4) Any Bill establishing any Banking Association, or amending or altering the constitution, powers, or privileges of any Banking Association:

(5) Any Bill imposing differential duties:

(6) Any Bill the provisions of which shall appear inconsistent with obligations imposed upon Us by Treaty:

(7) Any Bill interfering with the discipline or control of Our Forces by land or sea or air:

(8) Any Bill relating to questions of defence, or any matter affecting naval, military, or air forces or volunteer corps or the control of aerial navigation or aircraft or the transport or means of communication of naval, military, or air forces:

(9) Any Bill of an extraordinary nature and importance whereby Our Prerogative, or the rights and property of Our subjects not residing in the Colony, or the trade, transport or communications of any part of Our dominions, may be prejudiced:

(10) Any Bill containing any provisions prohibiting regulating or licensing the import or export of goods, or imposing or varying any customs, excise or export duty, tariff, levy or cess, or allowing any discount rebate or drawback from any such duty, tariff, levy or cess, or containing any other provision (whether of a similar nature to the foregoing or not), whereby the trade or commerce of the Malayan Union might be prejudicially affected, unless the Governor of the Malayan Union, having previously been informed of the provision shall have signified that he does not object thereto:

(11) Any Bill whereby persons of any racial, religious or other community are made liable to any disabilities or restrictions to which persons of other such communities are not also subjected or made liable, or are granted advantages not extended to persons of other such communities:

===== Page 58 =====
(12) Any Bill the principle of which has evoked serious opposition by any racial, religious, or other community and which in the opinion of the Governor is likely to involve oppression or unfairness to any such community:

(13) Any Bill containing provisions to which Our assent has been once refused, or which have been disallowed by Us:

Provided that the Governor may assent in Our name to any Bill falling within any of the classes described in this sub-clause (except a Bill falling within any class mentioned in paragraph (6) or (10) of this sub-clause) if he shall have satisfied himself that an urgent necessity exists requiring that such Bill be brought into immediate operation; but, in any such case, he shall, at the earliest opportunity, transmit to Us any Bill to which he shall have assented, together with his reasons for so assenting.

(2) The Governor shall not, without previously having obtained instructions from a Secretary of State, permit to be introduced or put into operation by subordinate legislation or executive action any such provision as is mentioned in paragraph (10) of sub-clause (1) of this clause unless the Governor of the Malayan Union, having previously been informed of the provision, shall have signified that he does not object thereto.

16.—(1) Every Bill (not being a Government measure) intended to affect or benefit some particular person, association, or corporate body, shall contain a clause saving the right of Us, Our Heirs and Successors, all bodies politic and corporate, and all others, except such as are mentioned in the Bill and those claiming by, from or under them.

(2) No such Bill shall be introduced into the Legislative Council until due notice has been given by not less than three successive publications of the Bill in the Gazette of the Colony, and the Governor shall not assent thereto in Our Name unless it has been so published. A certificate under the hand of the Governor signifying that such publication has been made shall be transmitted to Us with the Bill or Ordinance.

17. The provision of Clauses 15 and 16 shall apply (mutatis mutandis) to the making of any law by the Governor as they apply to a Bill requiring the assent of the Governor.

18. When any Ordinance shall have been enacted, the Governor shall forthwith transmit to Us, through a Secretary of State, for the signification of Our pleasure, a transcript in duplicate of the Ordinance duly authenticated under the Public Seal of the Colony and by his own signature, together with an explanation of the reasons and occasion for the enactment of the Ordinance.

19. As soon as practicable after the commencement of each year, the Governor shall cause a complete collection of all Ordinances enacted during the preceding year to be published for general information.

20. Every appointment by the Governor of any person to any Office or employment shall, unless otherwise provided by law, be expressed to be during pleasure only.

21.—(1) Whenever any offender shall have been condemned by sentence of any civil Court in the Colony to suffer death, the Governor shall call upon the Judge who presided at the trial to make to him a written report of the case of such offender, and shall cause such report to be taken into consideration at a meeting of the Executive Council, and

===== Page 59 =====
He may cause the said Judge to be specially summoned to attend at such meeting and to produce his notes thereat. The Governor shall not pardon or reprieve any such offender unless it shall appear to him expedient so to do, upon receiving the advice of the Executive Council thereon; but in all such cases he is to decide either to extend or to withhold a pardon or reprieve, according to his own deliberate judgment, whether the Members of the Executive Council concur therein or otherwise, entering nevertheless, in the Minutes of the Executive Council, his reasons at length, in case he should decide any such question in opposition to the judgment of the majority of the Members thereof.

(2) Until the Executive Council shall be constituted, references in this clause to the Executive Council shall be construed as references to the Advisory Council.

Blue Book.

22. The Governor shall forward to Us, each year, through a Secretary of State, the annual book of returns commonly called the Blue Book, relating to Revenue and Expenditure, Public Works, Legislation, Civil Establishments, Pensions, Population, Schools, Course of Exchange, Imports and Exports, Agricultural Produce, Manufactures, and other matters in the said Blue Book more particularly specified with reference to the state and condition of the Colony.

Governor's absence.

23. Except in circumstances in which he is not regarded as absent from the Colony for the purposes of the Order in Council, the Governor shall not quit the Colony without having first obtained leave from Us for so doing through a Secretary of State.

Interpretation.

24.—(1) In these Our Instructions, unless inconsistent with the context:

“the appointed day” has the same meaning as in the Order in Council;

“the Executive Council”, “the Legislative Council” and “the Advisory Council” mean the Executive Council, the Legislative Council and the Advisory Council respectively of the Colony of Singapore constituted under and by virtue of the Order in Council;

“the Governor” includes every person for the time being administering the Government of the Colony; and “Secretary of State” means one of Our Principal Secretaries of State.

(2) For the purposes of these Our Instructions, a person shall not be deemed to hold an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony by reason only that he is in receipt of a pension or other like allowance in respect of service under the Crown.

If it shall be declared by any law for the time being in force in the Colony that an office shall not be an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony for all or any of the purposes of these Our Instructions, these Instructions shall have effect accordingly as if such law were enacted therein.

Given at Our Court at Saint James's, this 27th day of March, 1946, in the Tenth year of Our Reign.

Printed by His Majesty's Stationery Office Press,
Drury Lane, W.C.2.

(4837) Wt. — Pink 108 100 4/46 D.L. G.416

===== Page 60 =====
SINGAPORE.
The Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946.

AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE
The 27th day of March, 1946

Present

THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL

WHEREAS by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Act, 1946 (hereinafter referred to as "the Act of 1946"), it is (among other things) provided—

(1) that on such day as His Majesty may by Order in Council appoint (in the Act of 1946, and in this Order referred to as "the appointed day") the Straits Settlements Act, 1866, shall be repealed and the Straits Settlements, that is to say the settlements and dependencies mentioned in the Schedule to the Act of 1946 (which include among other settlements and dependencies, the Settlement of Singapore and its dependencies, the Cocos or Keeling Islands and Christmas Island) shall cease to be a single Colony;

(2) that on and after the appointed day the said settlements and dependencies shall be divided into such territories as His Majesty may by Order in Council direct and those territories shall be governed, either singly or in conjunction with such other territories (whether falling within the Schedule to the Act of 1946 or not) as may be specified in the Order and that such Order in Council may contain such consequential and other provisions as are contained in this Order; and

(3) that the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945, shall apply in relation to each of the territories into which the said settlements and dependencies are divided by Order under this Act as if it were a British settlement as so defined:

AND WHEREAS by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Order in Council, 1946, it is provided that the appointed day shall be the first day of April, 1946.

NOW, THEREFORE, His Majesty, by virtue and in exercise of the powers in that behalf by the Act of 1946 and by the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945, or otherwise in His Majesty vested, is pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council, to order, and it is hereby ordered, as follows:

PART I.

PRELIMINARY.

1.—(1) This Order may be cited as the Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946, and shall come into operation on the appointed day.

(2) Section 13 and Parts IV and V of this Order shall not come into operation on the appointed day, but shall come into operation on such day or days respectively within six months from the appointed day as may be fixed by the Governor by Proclamation in the Gazette, and the Governor may fix different days for different purposes and different provisions of that section and those Parts:

===== Page 61 =====
Provided also that the said period of six months may be extended by the Governor, by Proclamation in the Gazette, for such further period as may be approved by a Secretary of State.

2.—(1) In this Order, unless the context otherwise requires—

“the Chief Justice” means the Chief Justice of the Colony;

“the Colony” means the Colony of Singapore as constituted by this Order;

“the existing laws” means the common law, the doctrines of equity and all Acts of Parliament, Orders in Council, Ordinances of the Legislature of the Colony of the Straits Settlements, Proclamations issued by the Governor of the Straits Settlements, or by or under the authority of, the Supreme Allied Commander South East Asia (other than the Proclamations establishing the British Military Administration and delegating powers thereunder), and all Rules, Regulations and By-laws made thereunder and all other enactments or instruments having the force of law in the territory comprising the Colony or in any part thereof immediately prior to the appointed day, whether the same were administered by the British Military Administration or not;

“the Gazette” means the Official Gazette of the Colony;

“the Governor” means the Governor and Commander-in-Chief for the time being of the Colony and includes any officer for the time being administering the government thereof and, to the extent that a Deputy to the Governor is authorised to act, that Deputy;

“the Governor in Council” means the Governor acting after consultation with, but not necessarily in accordance with the advice of the Executive Council of the Colony; nor necessarily in such Council assembled; and, until section 13 of this Order is in operation, means the Governor;

“Malayan Union Citizen” means a citizen of the Malayan Union within the meaning of any Order in Council which may provide for Malayan Union citizenship.

“prescribed” means prescribed by any law made under this Order or by regulation made by the Governor under section 50;

“property” includes all property movable or immovable, and all estates, interests, easements and rights whether equitable, or legal, in, to or out of property, and things in action and rights to revenue, taxes, duties and other dues; and “vested” in relation to property includes rights to property which are contingent and rights in remainder or reversion;

“the Public Seal” means the public seal of the Colony and includes the official stamp mentioned in section 9 of this Order;

“session” means the sittings of the Legislative Council commencing when the Council first meets after being constituted under this Order, or after its prorogation or dissolution at any time, and terminating when the Council is prorogued or is dissolved without having been prorogued;

“the Settlement of Singapore” means the Island of Singapore and its dependencies, Christmas Island, the Cocos or Keeling Islands, and all islands and places which, on the fifteenth day of February, 1942, were known and administered as part of such Settlement, and the territorial waters adjacent thereto;

===== Page 62 =====
"sitting" means any sitting or sittings of the Legislative Council commencing when the Council first meets after being summoned at any time and terminating when the Council is adjourned sine die or at the conclusion of a session without adjournment; and "the Supreme Court" means the Supreme Court of the Colony.

(2) For the purposes of this Order, where reference is made to any public officer by the term designating his office, such reference means the officer for the time being discharging the functions of that office.

(3) For the purposes of this Order a person shall not be deemed to hold an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony by reason only that he is in receipt of a pension or other like allowance in respect of service under the Crown.

If it shall be declared by any law for the time being in force in the Colony that an office shall not be an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony for all or any of the purposes of this Order, this Order shall have effect accordingly as if such law were enacted herein.

(4) The Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply for the interpretation of this Order as it applies for the interpretation of an Act of Parliament.

3. The Island of Singapore and its dependencies, the Cocos or Keeling Islands and Christmas Island shall be governed and administered as a separate Colony and shall be called the Colony of Singapore.

PART II.

THE GOVERNOR AND EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.

4. There shall be a Governor and Commander-in-Chief (hereinafter called "the Governor") in and over the Colony, and appointments to the said office shall be made by Commission under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet.

5. The Governor is hereby empowered and commanded to do all things that belong to his said office in accordance with this Order and such Commission as may be issued to him under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet and according to such Instructions as may from time to time be given to him under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet, or through a Secretary of State, and such Orders in Council and other laws as may from time to time be in force in the Colony.

6. Every person appointed to fill the office of Governor shall, before entering on any of the duties of his office, cause the Commission appointing him to be Governor to be read and published at the seat of Government, in the presence of the Chief Justice or, in his absence, of some other Judge of the Supreme Court, and, if section 13 of this Order is in force, of such members of the Executive Council of the Colony as can conveniently attend; and shall take before them the Oath of Allegiance and the Oath for the due execution of the office of Governor in the forms set out in the First Schedule to this Order, which Oaths the Chief Justice or other Judge as aforesaid shall administer.

7. Whenever the office of Governor is vacant or the Governor is absent from the Colony or the Governor is from any cause prevented from, or incapable of, performing the duties of his office, then such person as His Majesty may appoint under His Sign Manual and Signet or if there is no such person in the Colony so appointed and capable of discharging the duties of administration, the Senior Member of the

===== Page 63 =====
Executive Council then in the Colony and so capable, shall, during His Majesty's pleasure, administer the Government of the Colony, first taking in manner in this Order prescribed the Oaths directed by this Order to be taken by the Governor. Thereupon such person or Member is hereby empowered, subject, if he is so appointed as aforesaid, to the terms of his appointment, to do, during His Majesty's pleasure, all things that belong to the Office of Governor as provided in this Order:

Provided that the Governor or any person appointed as aforesaid shall not be regarded as absent from the Colony or prevented from or incapable of performing the duties of his office for the purposes of this Order, during his passage from one part of the Colony to another or during a visit to the Malayan Union or when there is a subsisting appointment of a Deputy under the next succeeding section of this Order.

(2) Any such person as aforesaid shall not continue to administer the Government after the Governor or some other person having a prior right to administer the same has notified that he is about to assume or resume the administration.

8. (1) Whenever the Governor has occasion to be absent from the seat of Government but not from the Colony or to be absent from the Colony for a period which he has reason to believe will be of short duration or whenever by reason of illness which he has reason to believe will be of short duration he considers it desirable so to do, he may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint any person resident in the Colony to be his Deputy during such absence or illness, and in that capacity to exercise and perform for and on behalf of the Governor during such absence or illness all such functions of the Governor as shall be specified in such Instrument.

(2) By the appointment of a Deputy as aforesaid the power and authority of the Governor shall not be abridged, altered, or in any way affected otherwise than as His Majesty may at any time direct, and every such Deputy shall conform to and observe all such instructions as the Governor shall from time to time address to him for his guidance.

(3) Any appointment under this section may at any time be revoked by the Governor or by a Secretary of State and in case of absence as aforesaid, shall cease and determine upon the return of the Governor to the seat of Government or to the Colony, as the case may be.

Public Seal.

9. The Governor shall keep and use the Public Seal of the Colony for sealing all things that shall pass the said Seal. Until a Public Seal shall be provided for the Colony, an official stamp bearing the inscription "Colony of Singapore. Public Seal" may be used as the Public Seal.

Grants of land.

10. Subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force in the Colony and of any Instructions from time to time given to the Governor under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, the Governor, in His Majesty's name and on His Majesty's behalf, may make and execute, under the Public Seal, grants and dispositions of any lands within the Colony which may be lawfully granted or disposed of by His Majesty.

Suspension or dismissal of officers.

11. Subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force in the Colony and to any instructions from time to time given to him by His Majesty through a Secretary of State, the Governor, for cause shown to his satisfaction, may dismiss or suspend from the exercise of his office any person holding any public office within the Colony, or, may take such other disciplinary action as may seem to him desirable.

===== Page 64 =====
12. When any offence has been committed for which the offender may be tried within the Colony, the Governor may, as he shall see occasion, in His Majesty's name and on His Majesty's behalf, grant a pardon to any accomplice in such offence who shall give such information as shall lead to the conviction of the principal offender or any one of such offenders if more than one; and further may grant to any offender convicted of any such offence in any Court within the Colony, a pardon either free or subject to lawful conditions, or any respite either indefinite or for such period as the Governor may see fit, of the execution of any sentence passed on such offender and may remit the whole or any part of such sentence or of any penalties or forfeitures otherwise due to His Majesty.

13. There shall be an Executive Council for the Colony, and the said Council shall consist of such persons as His Majesty shall direct by Instructions under His Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, and all such persons shall hold their places in the Executive Council during His Majesty's pleasure and, subject thereto, for such period and upon such conditions as may be specified in any such Instructions.

PART III.

COURTS.

14.—(1) There shall be in and for the Colony a Court of unlimited civil and criminal jurisdiction to be called the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court shall be a Court of Record and may consist of a High Court and a Court of Appeal.

(2) There shall be a Chief Justice appointed by His Majesty by Letters Patent, or by the Governor by Letters Patent under the Public Seal in accordance with such instructions as he may receive from His Majesty through a Secretary of State, and as many Judges of the Supreme Court, appointed similarly or in manner prescribed, as may from time to time be required. The Chief Justice and Judges of the Supreme Court shall hold office during His Majesty's pleasure.

(3) The constitution, powers and procedure of the Supreme Court and provisions relating to appeals therefrom to His Majesty in Council and provisions relating to the qualifications, order of precedence, duties and powers of Judges, and appointment of temporary Judges, may, subject to the provisions of this Order, be prescribed by laws made under this Order.

15.—(1) Courts subordinate to the Supreme Court and Courts of special jurisdiction may be constituted by laws made under this Order.

(2) Provision may be made by such laws for the hearing and determining of appeals from any such Court by the Supreme Court or otherwise.

PART IV.

LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.

16.—(1) There shall be a Legislative Council in and for the Colony, constituted in accordance with the provisions of this Order.

(2) The Council shall consist of the Governor as President, four ex officio Members, and such Nominated Official Members, not exceeding seven, such Nominated Unofficial Members not exceeding two, and such

===== Page 65 =====
Elected Members not exceeding nine as His Majesty shall direct by Instructions under His Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State.

17. The ex officio Members shall be the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary and the President of the Municipal Commissioners.

18. The Nominated Official Members shall be persons holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony, and shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of His Majesty's Instructions through a Secretary of State.

19. The Nominated Unofficial Members shall be British subjects or Malayan Union citizens of the age of twenty-one or upwards not holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony, and shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of His Majesty's Instructions through a Secretary of State.

20. The Elected Members shall be British subjects of the age of twenty-one years or upwards, not holding any office of emolument under the Crown, qualified as voters under any prescribed provision, who, the prescribed person is satisfied, are able to speak, and unless incapacitated by blindness or other physical cause, to read and write, the English language with a degree of proficiency sufficient to enable them to take an active part in the proceedings of the Council. Elected Members shall be elected in the manner prescribed.

21. No person shall be capable of being appointed or elected a Member of the Legislative Council or, having been appointed or elected, shall sit and vote therein, who at the time of appointment or election—
   (1) is a person found or declared to be of unsound mind under any law in force in the Colony; or
   (2) has, in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection, been sentenced to death or penal servitude or to imprisonment by whatever name called, for a term exceeding six months and has not either suffered the punishment to which he was sentenced or such other punishment as may by competent authority have been substituted therefor or received a free pardon; or
   (3) is an undischarged bankrupt; or
   (4) in the case of a Nominated Unofficial Member is a party to, or a member of a firm or a director or manager of a company which is a party to, any subsisting contract with the Government of the Colony for or on account of the public service or is otherwise to his knowledge interested in any such contract and shall not have disclosed to the Governor the nature of such contract and his interest or the interest, or any such firm or company therein; or
   (5) in the case of an Elected Member, is a party to, or a member of a firm, or a director or manager of a company which is a party to any subsisting contract with the Government of the Colony for or on account of the public service or is otherwise to his knowledge interested in any such contract and has not published within one month before the day of election, in the Gazette or in some newspaper circulating in the Colony, a notice setting out the nature of such contract and his interest or the interest of any such firm or company therein; or
   (6) in the case of an Elected Member is disqualified for membership of the Council under any law for the time being in force in the Colony relating to offences connected with the election of Members.

===== Page 66 =====
22. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, every Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council shall hold his seat in the Legislative Council during His Majesty's pleasure.

(2) Every Member shall in any case cease to be a Member at the next dissolution of the Legislative Council after his appointment or election, or previously if his seat shall become vacant under the provisions of this Order.

(3) The seat of a Member of the Legislative Council (other than an ex officio Member) shall become vacant—

(a) upon his death; or

(b) if he shall, without the leave of the Governor, be absent from two consecutive meetings of the Council; or

(c) if he shall cease to be a British subject; or shall take any oath, or make any declaration or acknowledgment of allegiance, obedience or adherence to any foreign power or State; or shall do, concur in or adopt any act done with the intention that he shall become a subject or citizen of any foreign Power or State; or

(d) if he shall be declared a bankrupt under any law in force in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection; or

(e) if in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection, he shall be sentenced to death, or imprisonment, by whatever name called, for a term exceeding six months; or

(f) if he shall be found or declared insane under any law in force in the Colony; or

(g) if he shall become disqualified for membership of the Council under any law or regulation for the time being in force in the Colony relating to offences connected with the election of Members; or

(h) if, being a Nominated Official Member, a Nominated Unofficial Member or Elected Member, he shall, by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor resign his seat in the Legislative Council; or

(i) if, being a Nominated Official Member, he shall cease to hold office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony; or

(j) if, being an Elected Member, he shall be appointed to or act in any such office or being a Nominated Unofficial Member he shall be appointed permanently to any such office; or

(k) if he shall otherwise cease to possess qualification for election or appointment, as the case may be; or

(l) if, being a Nominated Unofficial Member or Elected Member, he shall, without the approval of the Governor, become a party to, or if any firm in which he is a partner, or any company of which he is a director or manager, shall become a party to, or if he shall be otherwise interested in, any contract with the Government of the Colony for or on account of the Public service and shall not before the making of the contract have disclosed to the Governor the nature of such contract and his interest, or the interest of any such firm or company therein.

===== Page 67 =====
(4) If a Nominated Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council is appointed temporarily to any office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony, or appointed to act in any such office, he shall not sit or vote in the Legislative Council as an Unofficial Member so long as he continues to hold or act in that office.

(5) Any person vacating a seat as a Member of the Legislative Council may, if qualified, be again appointed or elected as a Member from time to time.

(6) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council, and such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until declared, in the same manner, again capable of discharging his functions.

(7) The Governor may by Instrument under the Public Seal suspend any Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member from exercising his functions as a Member of the Legislative Council. Every suspension shall be reported by the Governor to His Majesty through a Secretary of State, and shall remain in force unless removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal or by His Majesty through a Secretary of State, or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the Legislative Council.

(8) All questions arising as to the right of any person to be or remain an Elected Member shall be determined in such manner as may be prescribed.

(9) All questions arising as to the right of any person to be or remain a Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member shall be referred to and decided by the Governor in Council, whose decision shall be final and not called in question in any Court in the Colony.

Temporary Members.

23—(1) Whenever there is a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Legislative Council as ex officio Members, Nominated Official Members, or Nominated Unofficial Members, because—

(a) an ex officio Member is administering the Government of the Colony; or

(b) one person lawfully discharges the functions of more than one of the four officers specified in section 17 of this Order; or

(c) no person is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or

(d) a Nominated Official Member is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or

(e) the seat of a Nominated Official Member or a Nominated Unofficial Member is vacant for any cause other than a dissolution of the Council; or

(f) a Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council as a result of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in this Order, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or

(g) a Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member is suspended from exercising his functions as a Member; or

===== Page 68 =====
(h) a Member is absent from the Colony; or

(i) a Nominated Unofficial Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of his having been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony or to act in any such office;

the Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint a person to be a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) If the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Nominated Official Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as a Nominated Official Member; and if the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Nominated Unofficial Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as a Nominated Unofficial Member.

(3) Every person appointed to be a Temporary Member under this section shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Nominated Official Members, a Nominated Official Member;

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Nominated Unofficial Members, a Nominated Unofficial Member;

and, subject to the provisions of this section, the provisions of section 22 of this Order shall apply accordingly:

Provided that, in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed shall not be regarded as a Nominated Official Member in computing the number of such Members for the purposes of sub-section (2) of section 16 of this Order.

(4) The Governor shall forthwith report every such temporary appointment to His Majesty through a Secretary of State. Any such appointment may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be disallowed by His Majesty through a Secretary of State or revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment under this section shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of disallowance by His Majesty or of revocation by the Governor or on supersession of the appointment by the definitive appointment of a person to fill the vacancy or when the vacancy shall otherwise cease to exist.

24. The Governor may summon to any meeting of the Legislative Council any person holding public office under the Crown in the Colony, notwithstanding that such person may not be a Member of the Council, when, in the opinion of the Governor, the business before the Council renders the presence of such person desirable. Any person so summoned shall be entitled to take part in the proceedings of the Council relating to the business in respect of which he is summoned as if he were a Member of the Council, except that he shall not have the right to vote in the Council.

25. The Governor, if present, shall preside at meetings of the Council, and, in his absence, such Member as the Governor may appoint or, in the absence of such Member, or if no Member be so appointed, the senior Member of Council actually present shall preside.

===== Page 69 =====
Quorum. 26. No business except that of adjournment shall be transacted by the Council if objection is taken by any Member present that there are present less than one quarter of the Members besides the Governor or other Member presiding.

Precedence of Members. 27.—(1) After the Governor the Members of the Council shall take precedence as His Majesty may specially assign and, if precedence be not so assigned, as follows:

First, the ex officio Members in the order in which they are mentioned in section 17 of this Order;

Secondly, the Nominated Official Members appointed under section 18 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments as Nominated Official Members, or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Thirdly, Nominated Official Members temporarily appointed under section 23 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Fourthly, the Nominated Unofficial Members and Elected Members according to the lengths of time during which they have been continuously Members of the Council: Members elected or appointed at the same time taking precedence among themselves as the Governor may assign.

(2) For the purposes of the preceding sub-section—

(a) when the Council is dissolved, Nominated Official Members and Nominated Unofficial Members appointed to fill vacancies caused thereby shall be deemed to have been appointed, and Members elected at the ensuing elections shall be deemed to have been elected by virtue of those elections, at the date on which the report of the first successful candidate for election is made to the Governor; and

(b) paragraph (a) of this sub-section shall apply to the Members elected or appointed to the Legislative Council as first constituted under this Order as if such elections or appointments were consequent upon a dissolution of the Council; and

(c) in ascertaining the period during which a person has continuously been an Elected Member or a Nominated Unofficial Member of the Council, no account shall be taken of any interval between the vacation by that person of his seat in the Council in consequence of a dissolution of the Council and the date of his re-election or re-appointment to fill a vacancy in the Council caused by that dissolution.

PART V

LEGISLATION AND PROCEDURE IN LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL

28. Subject to the provisions of this Order, it shall be lawful for the Governor, with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council, to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Colony.

===== Page 70 =====
29. Save as otherwise provided in this Order, all questions proposed for decision in the Council shall be determined by a majority of the votes of the Members present and voting. The Governor shall not have an original vote, but, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, he shall have a casting vote. In the absence of the Governor, the Member presiding shall have an original vote and also, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, a casting vote.

30. (1) If the Governor considers it expedient in the interests of public order, public faith or good government that any Bill introduced or any motion proposed in the Council shall have effect, then if the Council fails to pass such a Bill or motion within such time and in such form as the Governor may think reasonable and expedient, the Governor, at any time in his discretion, may, notwithstanding any provisions of this Order or of any Standing Rules or Orders of the Council, declare that such Bill or motion shall have effect as if it had been passed by the Council, either in the form in which it was so introduced or proposed or with such amendments as the Governor shall think fit which have been moved or proposed in the Council or in any Committee thereof; and thereupon the said Bill or motion shall have effect as if it had been so passed, and, in the case of any such Bill, the provisions of this Order, relating to assent to Bills and disallowance of laws shall apply accordingly.

(2) In this section the expression "public order, public faith or good government" shall, without prejudice to their generality, include the following:

(a) the responsibility of the Colony as a component part of the British Empire, including foreign relations and relations with other parts of the British Empire;

(b) all questions relating to defence, including provision, construction, maintenance and use of defence works, areas and communications;

(c) subjects upon which, in the opinion of the Governor or of a Secretary of State, it is necessary to secure uniformity in Legislation between the Colony and the Malayan Union; and

(d) all matters pertaining to the creation or abolition of any public office and to the appointment, salary or other conditions of service of any public officer or officers.

(3) The Governor shall forthwith report to a Secretary of State every case in which he shall make any such declaration as is mentioned in sub-section (1) of this section and the reason therefor.

(4) If any Member of the Legislative Council objects to any declaration made under this section, he may, within seven days of the making thereof, submit to the Governor a statement in writing of his reasons for so objecting and a copy of such statement shall, if furnished by such Member, be forwarded by the Governor as soon as practicable to a Secretary of State.

(5) Any such declaration, other than a declaration relating to a Bill, may be revoked by a Secretary of State, and the Governor shall notify such revocation in the Gazette; and from the date of such notification any resolution which shall have had effect by virtue of the declaration revoked shall cease to have effect and the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 38 of the Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply to such revocation as they apply to the repeal of an Act of Parliament.

===== Page 71 =====
31.—(1) No Bill shall become a law until either the Governor shall assent thereto in His Majesty's name and on His Majesty's behalf, and shall sign the same in token of assent, or His Majesty shall give his assent thereto through a Secretary of State.

(2) When a Bill is presented to the Governor for his assent, he shall, according to his discretion, but subject to the provisions of this Order and of any instructions addressed to him under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, declare that he assents or refuses to assent thereto, or that he reserves the Bill for the signification of His Majesty's pleasure.

(3) A law assented to by the Governor shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the date on which such assent shall be given, or, if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment (including any enactment in force at the commencement of this Order) that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

(4) A Bill reserved for the signification of His Majesty's pleasure shall become a law so soon as His Majesty shall have given His assent thereto, through a Secretary of State, and the Governor shall have signified such assent by Proclamation in the Gazette. Every such law shall come into operation on the date of such Proclamation or, if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment (including any enactment in force at the commencement of this Order) that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

32.—(1) Any law to which the Governor shall have given his assent may be disallowed by His Majesty through a Secretary of State.

(2) Whenever any law has been disallowed by His Majesty, the Governor shall cause notice of such disallowance to be published in the Gazette.

(3) Without prejudice to anything lawfully done thereunder, every law so disallowed shall cease to have effect as soon as notice of such disallowance shall be published as aforesaid. Thereafter any enactment repealed or amended by such law shall have effect as if such law had not been made, but save as aforesaid, the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 38 of the Interpretation Act, r1889, shall apply to such disallowance as they apply to the repeal of an Act of Parliament.

33. Subject to the provisions of this Order, the Governor and the Council shall, in the transaction of business and the passing of laws, conform as nearly as may be to the directions contained in any Instructions under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet which may from time to time be addressed to the Governor in that behalf.

34. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of such Instructions as aforesaid, the Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its own proceedings and the conduct of business and for the passing, intituling and numbering of Bills, and for the presentation of the same to the Governor for his assent, but no such Rules or Orders shall have effect unless and until they shall have been approved by the Governor.

35. The official language of the Council shall be English.

===== Page 72 =====
36. Except for the purpose of enabling this section to be complied with, no Member shall sit or vote in the Council until he shall have taken and subscribed before the Governor, or some person authorised by the Governor in that behalf, the Oath of Allegiance in the form set out in the First Schedule to this Order:

Provided that every person authorised by law to make an affirmation instead of taking an oath in legal proceedings may make such affirmation in like terms instead of the said oath.

37. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council, any Member may introduce any Bill or propose any motion for debate in, or may present any petition to, the Council, and the same shall be debated and disposed of according to the Standing Rules and Orders:

Provided that, except with the recommendation or consent of the Governor signified thereto, the Council shall not proceed upon any Bill, amendment, motion or petition, which, in the opinion of the Governor or of the presiding Member would—

(a) dispose of, or charge any public revenue or public funds of the Colony, or revoke or alter any disposition thereof or charge thereon, or impose, alter, or repeal any rate, tax or duty; or

(b) suspend the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council or any of them.

38.—(1) The sessions of the Legislative Council shall be held at such times and places as the Governor shall from time to time by Proclamation appoint.

(2) There shall be a session of the Council once at least in every year, so that a period of twelve months shall not intervene between the last sitting in one session and the first sitting in the next session.

39.—(1) The Governor may, at any time, by Proclamation, prorogue or dissolve the Legislative Council.

(2) On dissolution, all Members shall vacate their seats and the Council shall be reconstituted by election and appointment in accordance with the provisions of this Order at such time within three months of the dissolution, as the Governor shall by Proclamation appoint.

PART VI

TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

40.—(1) Until such time as section 13 and Parts IV and V of this Order shall come into operation, it shall be lawful for the Governor to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Colony.

(2) In making such laws the Governor shall consult the Advisory Council.

(3) Section 32 of the Order shall apply to any law made under this section as it applies to a law assented to by the Governor.

41.—(1) There shall be an Advisory Council which shall consist of the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary and such other persons as the Governor may by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint; and such persons shall hold their places in the said Council during the Governor's pleasure.

===== Page 73 =====
(2) The Governor alone shall be entitled to submit questions to the Advisory Council for their advice. The Governor may act in opposition to the advice given to him by the Members of the Advisory Council if he shall in any case deem it right so to do. In such case, it shall be competent to any Member of the Advisory Council to require that there be recorded on the Minutes any advice or opinion he may give upon the question and the grounds therefor.

(3) The Governor may regulate the procedure and practice of the Advisory Council in such manner as he shall see fit.

(4) The Governor may, by Proclamation in the Gazette, declare that this section shall cease to have effect, and thereupon this section shall cease to have effect accordingly on the date specified in the Proclamation.

42.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, the existing laws shall, except insofar as the same shall, in their application to the Colony or any part thereof be repealed, amended or otherwise affected by or under any Act of Parliament, Order of His Majesty in Council or any law made under the provisions of this Order, continue to have effect in the Colony or in that part thereof to which such law applied prior to the appointed day, but shall be construed subject to such modifications as may be necessary to bring them into conformity with the provisions of this Order.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section, the existing laws shall, except as aforesaid, in their application to the Colony, be construed, where the context admits, subject to the following modifications:

(a) references to the Colony of the Straits Settlements shall be construed as referring (but not exclusively) to the Colony;

(b) references to the Settlement of Singapore shall be construed as references to the Colony;

(c) references to the Governor or Governor in Council, or to any officer of the Colony of the Straits Settlements, or to any officer of, or authority or body constituted in or for, the Straits Settlements, shall be construed as references to the Governor or Governor in Council, or to the corresponding officer of, or authority or body constituted in or for the Colony, as the case may be; and

(d) references to the Chief Justice or to any Court, Judge or Magistrate of the Straits Settlements shall be construed as references to the Chief Justice or to the corresponding Court, Judge or Magistrate of the Colony.

(3) The adaptations and modifications specified in the second column of the Second Schedule to this Order shall be made in the enactments mentioned in the first column of that Schedule.

43. Subject to the express provisions of this Order, nothing in this Order shall affect the validity or future operation of any lawful act done by any person or authority before the appointed day in any territory comprised in the Colony.

===== Page 74 =====
Singapore
Order in Council
440 (1).

===== Page 75 =====
44. All proceedings other than proceedings in the Prize Court commenced before the 15th day of February, 1942, in any Court of Justice in or having jurisdiction in the territory comprised in the Colony may be carried on in like manner as nearly as may be, as if this Order and the Act of 1946 had not been made or passed but in the corresponding Court of the Colony, and any such proceeding may be amended in such manner as may appear necessary or proper in order to bring it into conformity with the provisions of the Act of 1946 and of this Order.

45. Courts constituted for the Colony shall have within their respective powers, jurisdiction with respect to all offences (including offences against Proclamations issued by, or under the Authority of the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia) and causes of action (other than matters of Prize) committed or arising before the appointed day for which the accused might have been tried, or proceedings might have been had, within the Settlement of Singapore under the law (including the provisions of any such Proclamation) in force in the Straits Settlements prior to the appointed day, and such jurisdiction shall be exercised in conformity with the law applicable in the Settlement of Singapore at the date when the offence was committed or the cause of action arose and in accordance, as nearly as may be, with the procedure in force in Courts constituted under this Order.

46. Military Courts established in the Settlement of Singapore by the British Military Administration by virtue of any Proclamation made by, or under the authority of, the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia, in which proceedings have been commenced and are pending at the date hereof shall be deemed to be lawfully constituted Courts with jurisdiction to continue and conclude such proceedings and to issue warrants for the custody of prisoners and the carrying out of sentences in accordance with such Proclamation, after the appointed day. The powers and functions of a confirming authority or reviewing authority under any such Proclamation may be exercised by such person or persons as the Governor shall designate in that behalf.

47.—(i) In this section—

(i) "Straits Settlements property" means property which, immediately before the appointed day, was vested in, or was in the possession, or under the control, or held on account, of His Majesty, or the Government of the Straits Settlements, or any officer of such Government.

(ii) Any reference to property vested in any person or authority shall be construed as including a reference to any property in the possession, or under the control, or held on account, of that person or authority; and any direction that property shall be vested in any person or authority shall likewise be construed as including a direction, as the case may require, that the possession or control of property shall be transferred to, or that property shall be held on account of, that person or authority.

===== Page 76 =====
(2) Save as in this section otherwise provided, all Straits Settlements property which was immediately before the appointed day, either—

(a) immovable property situate in the Settlement of Singapore; or

(b) vested solely for a purpose of the Government of the Straits Settlements which will, after the appointed day, be a purpose of the Government of the Colony;

shall vest in His Majesty or in the appropriate officer of the Government of the Colony, or in the person or body prescribed under sub-section (6) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Colony.

(3) Save as in this section otherwise provided, any Straits Settlements property which was, immediately before the appointed day, vested for any purpose of the Straits Settlements Government common to the Settlement of Singapore and to any other territory or territories formerly included in the Straits Settlements, but not included in the Colony, shall vest in His Majesty or in the person or body prescribed under sub-section (6) of this section but shall be apportioned between the Colony and any such territory by agreement between the Governor and the Governor of such territory with the approval of a Secretary of State; or, in default of such agreement, shall be apportioned by order of a Secretary of State. Any such agreement or order may contain provision for the assessment of values, for the perfecting of any transfer of property mentioned therein, and for financial and other adjustments, and may contain such other provisions as may be considered necessary or expedient for carrying the apportionment into effect.

(4) Any Straits Settlements property apportioned to the Colony under sub-section (3) of this section shall be vested in His Majesty, or the appropriate officer of the Government of the Colony, or the persons or body prescribed under sub-section (6) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Colony; and the Governor may make such vesting or other orders as may be necessary for carrying the provisions of this section into effect, and for such purpose may appoint and empower persons to transfer property.

(5) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, any property which, immediately before the appointed day was vested in the Ruler of any of the Malay States, for any of the following purposes, shall continue to be vested in the Sultan of the State for the same purposes, that is to say:

(a) any property held by, or in trust for, or for the benefit of a Ruler for his official or personal use; or

(b) any building or land used for purposes of the Muhammadan religion, or property pertaining to the endowment of Muhammadan religious institutions;

Nothing in this section shall affect the use or enjoyment of any property vested in a Ruler or in His Majesty for any of the said purposes.

(6) The Governor may make regulations for determining, in cases of doubt, the person or body in whom property affected by this section shall be vested, and generally for giving effect to this section, and may by order, exclude any particular property from the operation of this section, or declare, for the removal of doubt, whether, and in what manner, any particular property is affected thereby.

===== Page 77 =====
48.—(1) All liabilities incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Straits Settlements for any of the purposes of such Government (other than liabilities incurred solely for a purpose which will, after the appointed day, be a purpose of the Government of any territory formerly included in the Straits Settlements, but not included in the Colony) shall be deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Colony.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section:

(a) Such liabilities shall include claims in respect of Loans and War Savings Certificates issued, and Post Office Savings Bank deposits received, by the Government of the Straits Settlements.

(b) Claims to pensions, gratuities and other like allowances in respect of service under the Government of the Straits Settlements before the appointed day, whether arising before or after that day, shall be liabilities deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Colony.

(3) It shall be lawful for the Governor, with the approval of a Secretary of State, to make, vary, rescind and carry into effect, arrangements with the Governor of any territory formerly included in the Straits Settlements, but not included in the Colony, for the payment by the Government of that territory to the Government of the Colony, of proportionate contributions towards the sums necessary to defray the liabilities of the Government of the Straits Settlements transferred by this Order to the Government of the Colony including liabilities for the service and repayment of Loans and War Savings Certificates issued, Post Office Savings Bank deposits received, and pensions, allowances and gratuities payable, by the Government of the Straits Settlements.

(4) Claims in respect of liabilities deemed, by virtue of this section, to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Colony which, if the Act of 1946 had not been passed and this Order had not been made, might have been enforced against His Majesty in His Government of the Straits Settlements, or against any officer of such Government in his official capacity or against any department of such Government, in connection with the administration of the Straits Settlements, may be enforced, in such manner as may be prescribed by laws for the time being in force or by regulations made by the Governor under sub-section (5) of this section, against His Majesty in His Government of the Colony or against the appropriate officer of that Government, as the case may be.

(5) The Governor, with the approval of a Secretary of State, may make regulations for determining in any case of doubt the person or body by or against whom claims may be enforced under this section and generally for giving effect thereto.

49. The provisions of sections 42 to 48 inclusive of this Order may be amended by laws made under Part V or under section 40 of this Order.

PART VII.

MISCELLANEOUS.

50.—(1) Provision may be made by laws made under this Order, and, until such provision has been made, by regulations made by the Governor, regulating any matter which by this Order or by Instructions under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet is to be prescribed.

Provisions necessary to give effect to this Order.

===== Page 78 =====
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section, provision may be made regulating the election to the Legislative Council of Elected Members, including provision for regulating any of the following matters, that is to say:

(a) the persons, associations or bodies by whom Members are to be elected;
(b) the holding of elections;
(c) the qualifications of voters;
(d) the registration of voters;
(e) the ascertainment of the qualifications of voters and candidates;
(f) offences in relation to elections including the trial and punishment thereof;
(g) the disposal of election petitions and the determination of questions otherwise arising regarding membership of the Council.

(3) Such regulations shall be published in the Gazette; and thereafter every such regulation shall take effect on the day of publication or on such other date as may be therein specified and shall have the force of law.

Unqualified persons sitting or voting. Penalty.

51.—(1) Any person who—

(a) having been elected or appointed a Member of the Legislative Council, but not having been, at the time of such election or appointment, qualified to be so elected or appointed, shall sit or vote in the Legislative Council; or

(b) shall sit or vote in the Legislative Council after his seat thereon has become vacant or he has become disqualified from sitting or voting therein;

knowing, or having reasonable grounds for knowing, that he was so disqualified, or that his seat has become vacant, as the case may be, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding two hundred dollars for every day upon which he so sits or votes.

(2) The said penalty shall be recoverable by action in the Supreme Court at the suit of the Attorney General.

Vacancies not to disqualify.

52. No Council constituted by this Order shall be disqualified from the transaction of business by reason of any vacancy among the Members, or by reason of the sitting or voting therein of any unqualified or disqualified person.

Retrospective effect of laws.

53. For the avoidance of doubts it is hereby declared that any law or regulation made under this Order may be made to operate retrospectively to any date.

Labuan.

54. Until other provision shall be made for the government and administration of the Settlement of Labuan and its Dependencies (in this section referred to as "Labuan"), Labuan shall be a part of the Colony, and this Order shall have effect in all respects as if the Colony included Labuan:

Provided that the provisions of this Order shall not come into operation in Labuan until such day or days as the Governor may by Order appoint and the Governor may fix different days for different purposes and different provisions of this Order; and the Governor may by Order make such adaptations and modifications as the Governor may seem expedient, in the said provisions in their application to Labuan.

===== Page 79 =====
55.—(1) If any difficulty shall arise in bringing into operation any of the provisions of this Order or in giving effect to the purposes thereof, a Secretary of State may, by Order, make such provision as seems to him necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing the difficulty and may by such Order amend or add to any provision of this Order:

Provided that no Order under this section shall be made later than the first day of January, 1948.

(2) Any Order under this section may be amended, added to, or revoked by further Order, and may be given retrospective effect to a day not earlier than the appointed day.

56. Nothing in this Order shall affect the power of His Majesty in Council to make laws from time to time for the peace, order and good government of the Colony.

E. C. E. Leadbitter.

===== Page 80 =====
FIRST SCHEDULE

OATH OF ALLEGIANCE.
(Sections 6 and 36).

I, ... do swear that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to His Majesty King George VI, His Heirs and Successors, according to Law. So help me God.

OATH FOR THE DUE EXECUTION OF THE OFFICE OF GOVERNOR.

I, ... do swear that I will well and truly serve His Majesty King George VI, His Heirs and Successors, in the Office of Governor. So help me God.

THE SECOND SCHEDULE.
(Section 42 (3)).

Adaptation of Acts of Parliament.

Title of Act.

1. The Straits Settlements Offences Act, 1874.

37 & 38 Vict. c. 38.

1. The Act shall have effect as if the word "territories" were substituted for the word "Colony" wherever such last mentioned word occurs; and the territories of the Straits Settlements (in the Act called the colony of the Straits Settlements) shall be deemed to include (among other territories) the Colony of Singapore.

2. The Straits Settlements and Johore Territorial Waters (Agreement) Act, 1928.

18 & 19 Geo. V. c. 23.

2. The Act and the agreement scheduled thereto shall have effect as if the words "the Colony of Singapore" were substituted for the words "the Straits Settlements" and for the words "the Settlement of Singapore" wherever such words occur.

Printed by His Majesty's Stationery Office Press,
Drury Lane, W.C.2.

(4834) Wt. — Pink 105 100 4/46 D.L. G. 416

===== Page 81 =====
THE STRAITS SETTLEMENTS (REPEAL) ORDER IN COUNCIL, 1946

AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE
The 27th day of March, 1946

Present

THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL

WHEREAS by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Act, 1946, (hereinafter referred to as "the Act of 1946") it is, among other things, enacted that on such day as His Majesty may by Order in Council appoint (in the Act of 1946 and in this Order referred to as "the appointed day") the Straits Settlements Act, 1866, shall be repealed and the Straits Settlements, that is to say the settlements and dependencies mentioned in the Schedule to the Act of 1946, shall cease to be a single colony and that on and after the appointed day the said settlements and dependencies shall be divided into such territories as His Majesty may by Order in Council direct and those territories shall be governed either singly or in conjunction with such other territories (whether falling within the Schedule to the Act of 1946 or not) as may be specified in such Order:

AND WHEREAS it is expedient to appoint, by this Order, the appointed day for the purposes of the Act of 1946:

NOW, THEREFORE, His Majesty, in exercise of the powers conferred on Him by the Act of 1946 and of all other powers enabling Him in that behalf, is pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council, to order, and it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. This Order may be cited as the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Order in Council, 1946.

2. The appointed day shall be the first day of April, 1946.

E. C. E. Leadbitter.

Printed by His Majesty's Stationery Office Press,
Drury Lane, W.C.2.

===== Page 82 =====
Dear Leadbitter,

I am enclosing the following documents:

(a) Commission to be passed under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet, appointing Sir Gerard Edward James Gent, K.C.M.G., D.S.O., O.B.E., M.C., to be Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Malayan Union.

(b) Commission to be passed under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet, appointing Franklin Charles Gimson, Esq., C.M.G., to be Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Singapore Colony.

(c) Dormant Commission to be passed under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet appointing the Chief Secretary, or the person for the time being lawfully exercising the functions of Chief Secretary, to administer the Government of the Malayan Union in certain events;

(d) Dormant Commission to be passed under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet appointing the Colonial Secretary, or the person for the time being lawfully exercising the functions of Colonial Secretary, to administer the Government of the Colony of Singapore in certain events;

(e) Warrant to the Lord High Chancellor to pass Letters Patent under the Great Seal appointing Harold Curwen Willan, Esq., to the Office of Chief Justice of the Malayan Union.

Sir Eric Leadbitter, C.V.O.

===== Page 83 =====
(f) Warrant to the Lord High Chancellor to pass Letters Patent under the Great Seal appointing Charles Murray Murray-Aynsley, Esq., to the Office of Chief Justice of the Colony of Singapore.

(g) Warrant to the Lord High Chancellor to pass Letters Patent under the Great Seal appointing Louis Victor Joseph Laville, Esq., to the Office of Judge of the Supreme Court of the Malayan Union;

(h) Warrant to the Lord High Chancellor to pass Letters Patent under the Great Seal appointing Cecil William Victor Carey, Esq., to the Office of Judge of the Supreme Court of the Colony of Singapore.

(i) Instructions to be passed under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet to the Governor, and Commander-in-Chief of the Malayan Union; and

(j) Instructions to be passed under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet to the Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Colony of Singapore.

2. I should be grateful if you could arrange for these documents to be signed by His Majesty immediately after the passing of the Malayan Union and Singapore Colony, Orders in Council, 1946, and afterwards for them to be delivered personally to Mr. J.H. Thompson, Colonial Office, Palace Chambers, Bridge Street, S.W.1.

Yours sincerely,

[Signature]

R.O. Roberts WRAF.

===== Page 84 =====
81

===== Page 85 =====
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE
The 27th day of March, 1946
Present

THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL

WHEREAS by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Act, 1946, (hereinafter referred to as "the Act of 1946") it is, among other things, enacted that on such day as His Majesty may by Order in Council appoint (in the Act of 1946 and in this Order referred to as "the appointed day") the Straits Settlements Act, 1866, shall be repealed and the Straits Settlements, that is to say the settlements and dependencies mentioned in the Schedule to the Act of 1946, shall cease to be a single colony and that on and after the appointed day the said settlements and dependencies shall be divided into such territories as His Majesty may by Order in Council direct and those territories shall be governed either singly or in conjunction with such other territories (whether falling within the Schedule to the Act of 1946 or not) as may be specified in such Order:

AND WHEREAS it is expedient to appoint, by this Order, the appointed day for the purposes of the Act of 1946:

NOW, THEREFORE, His Majesty, in exercise of the powers conferred on Him by the Act of 1946 and of all other powers enabling Him in that behalf, is pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council, to order, and it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. This Order may be cited as the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Order in Council, 1946.

2. The appointed day shall be the first day of April, 1946.

Appointed day.

E. C. E. Leadbitter.

Printed by His Majesty's Stationery Office Press,
Drury Lane, W.C.2.

===== Page 86 =====
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE
The 27th day of March, 1946

Present
THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL.

WHEREAS by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Act, 1946 (hereinafter referred to as "the Act of 1946"), it is (among other things) provided—

(1) that on such day as His Majesty may by Order in Council appoint (in the Act of 1946, and in this Order referred to as "the appointed day") the Straits Settlements Act, 1866, shall be repealed and the Straits Settlements, that is to say the settlements and dependencies mentioned in the Schedule to the Act of 1946 (which include among other settlements and dependencies, the Settlement of Singapore and its dependencies the Cocos or Keeling Islands and Christmas Island) shall cease to be a single Colony;

(2) that on and after the appointed day the said settlements and dependencies shall be divided into such territories as His Majesty may by Order in Council direct and those territories shall be governed, either singly or in conjunction with such other territories (whether falling within the Schedule to the Act of 1946 or not) as may be specified in the Order and that such Order in Council may contain such consequential and other provisions as are contained in this Order; and

(3) that the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945, shall apply in relation to each of the territories into which the said settlements and dependencies are divided by Order under this Act as if it were a British settlement as so defined:

AND WHEREAS by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Order in Council, 1946, it is provided that the appointed day shall be the first day of April, 1946.

NOW, THEREFORE, His Majesty, by virtue and in exercise of the powers in that behalf by the Act of 1946 and by the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945, or otherwise in His Majesty vested, is pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council, to order, and it is hereby ordered, as follows:

PART I.

PRELIMINARY.

1.—(1) This Order may be cited as the Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946, and shall come into operation on the appointed day.

(2) Section 13 and Parts IV and V of this Order shall not come into operation on the appointed day, but shall come into operation on such day or days respectively within six months from the appointed day as may be fixed by the Governor by Proclamation in the Gazette, and the Governor may fix different days for different purposes and different provisions of that section and those Parts:

D.C. 790 3, 1, 20

===== Page 87 =====
Provided also that the said period of six months may be extended by the Governor, by Proclamation in the Gazette, for such further period as may be approved by a Secretary of State.

2. (1) In this Order, unless the context otherwise requires—

“the Chief Justice” means the Chief Justice of the Colony;

“the Colony” means the Colony of Singapore as constituted by this Order;

“the existing laws” means the common law, the doctrines of equity and all Acts of Parliament, Orders in Council, Ordinances of the Legislature of the Colony of the Straits Settlements, Proclamations issued by the Governor of the Straits Settlements, or by or under the authority of the Supreme Allied Commander South East Asia (other than the Proclamations establishing the British Military Administration and delegating powers thereunder), and all Rules, Regulations and By-laws made thereunder and all other enactments or instruments having the force of law in the territory comprising the Colony or in any part thereof immediately prior to the appointed day, whether the same were administered by the British Military Administration or not;

“the Gazette” means the Official Gazette of the Colony;

“the Governor” means the Governor and Commander-in-Chief for the time being of the Colony and includes any officer for the time being administering the government thereof and, to the extent that a Deputy to the Governor is authorised to act, that Deputy;

“the Governor in Council” means the Governor acting after consultation with, but not necessarily in accordance with the advice of the Executive Council of the Colony; nor necessarily in such Council assembled; and, until section 13 of this Order is in operation, means the Governor;

“Malayan Union Citizen” means a citizen of the Malayan Union within the meaning of any Order in Council which may provide for Malayan Union citizenship.

“prescribed” means prescribed by any law made under this Order or by regulation made by the Governor under section 50;

“property” includes all property movable or immovable, and all estates, interests, easements and rights whether equitable, or legal, in, to or out of property, and things in action and rights to revenue, taxes, duties and other dues; and “vested” in relation to property includes rights to property which are contingent and rights in remainder or reversion;

“the Public Seal” means the public seal of the Colony and includes the official stamp mentioned in section 9 of this Order;

“session” means the sittings of the Legislative Council commencing when the Council first meets after being constituted under this Order, or after its prorogation or dissolution at any time, and terminating when the Council is prorogued or is dissolved without having been prorogued;

“the Settlement of Singapore” means the Island of Singapore and its dependencies, Christmas Island, the Cocos or Keeling Islands, and all islands and places which, on the fifteenth day of February, 1942, were known and administered as part of such Settlement, and the territorial waters adjacent thereto;

===== Page 88 =====
“Sitting” means any sitting or sittings of the Legislative Council commencing when the Council first meets after being summoned at any time and terminating when the Council is adjourned sine die or at the conclusion of a session without adjournment; and “the Supreme Court” means the Supreme Court of the Colony.

(2) For the purposes of this Order, where reference is made to any public officer by the term designating his office, such reference means the officer for the time being discharging the functions of that office.

(3) For the purposes of this Order a person shall not be deemed to hold an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony by reason only that he is in receipt of a pension or other like allowance in respect of service under the Crown.

If it shall be declared by any law for the time being in force in the Colony that an office shall not be an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony for all or any of the purposes of this Order, this Order shall have effect accordingly as if such law were enacted herein.

(4) The Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply for the interpretation of this Order as it applies for the interpretation of an Act of Parliament.

3. The Island of Singapore and its dependencies, the Cocos or Keeling Islands and Christmas Island shall be governed and administered as a separate Colony and shall be called the Colony of Singapore.

PART II.

THE GOVERNOR AND EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.

4. There shall be a Governor and Commander-in-Chief (hereinafter called “the Governor”) in and over the Colony, and appointments to the said office shall be made by Commission under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet.

5. The Governor is hereby empowered and commanded to do all things that belong to his said office in accordance with this Order and such Commission as may be issued to him under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet and according to such Instructions as may from time to time be given to him under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet, or through a Secretary of State, and such Orders in Council and other laws as may from time to time be in force in the Colony.

6. Every person appointed to fill the office of Governor shall, before entering on any of the duties of his office, cause the Commission appointing him to be Governor to be read and published at the seat of Government, in the presence of the Chief Justice or, in his absence, of some other Judge of the Supreme Court, and, if section 13 of this Order is in force, of such members of the Executive Council of the Colony as can conveniently attend; and shall take before them the Oath of Allegiance and the Oath for the due execution of the office of Governor in the forms set out in the First Schedule to this Order, which Oaths the Chief Justice or other Judge as aforesaid shall administer.

7.—(1) Whenever the office of Governor is vacant or the Governor is absent from the Colony or the Governor is from any cause prevented from, or incapable of, performing the duties of his office, then such person as His Majesty may appoint under His Sign Manual and Signet or if there is no such person in the Colony so appointed and capable of discharging the duties of administration, the Senior Member of the

===== Page 89 =====
Executive Council then in the Colony and so capable, shall, during His Majesty’s pleasure, administer the Government of the Colony, first taking in manner in this Order prescribed the Oaths directed by this Order to be taken by the Governor. Thereupon such person or Member is hereby empowered, subject, if he is so appointed as aforesaid, to the terms of his appointment, to do, during His Majesty’s pleasure, all things that belong to the Office of Governor as provided in this Order:

Provided that the Governor or any person appointed as aforesaid shall not be regarded as absent from the Colony or prevented from or incapable of performing the duties of his office for the purposes of this Order, during his passage from one part of the Colony to another or during a visit to the Malayan Union or when there is a subsisting appointment of a Deputy under the next succeeding section of this Order.

(2) Any such person as aforesaid shall not continue to administer the Government after the Governor or some other person having a prior right to administer the same has notified that he is about to assume or resume the administration.

8.—(1) Whenever the Governor has occasion to be absent from the seat of Government but not from the Colony or to be absent from the Colony for a period which he has reason to believe will be of short duration or whenever by reason of illness which he has reason to believe will be of short duration he considers it desirable so to do, he may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint any person resident in the Colony to be his Deputy during such absence or illness, and in that capacity to exercise and perform for and on behalf of the Governor during such absence or illness all such functions of the Governor as shall be specified in such Instrument.

(2) By the appointment of a Deputy as aforesaid the power and authority of the Governor shall not be abridged, altered, or in any way affected otherwise than as His Majesty may at any time direct, and every such Deputy shall conform to and observe all such instructions as the Governor shall from time to time address to him for his guidance.

(3) Any appointment under this section may at any time be revoked by the Governor or by a Secretary of State and in case of absence as aforesaid, shall cease and determine upon the return of the Governor to the seat of Government or to the Colony, as the case may be.

Public Seal.

9. The Governor shall keep and use the Public Seal of the Colony for sealing all things that shall pass the said Seal. Until a Public Seal shall be provided for the Colony, an official stamp bearing the inscription “Colony of Singapore. Public Seal” may be used as the Public Seal.

Grants of land.

10. Subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force in the Colony and of any Instructions from time to time given to the Governor under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, the Governor, in His Majesty’s name and on His Majesty’s behalf, may make and execute, under the Public Seal, grants and dispositions of any lands within the Colony which may be lawfully granted or disposed of by His Majesty.

Suspension or dismissal of officers.

11. Subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force in the Colony and to any instructions from time to time given to him by His Majesty through a Secretary of State, the Governor, for cause shown to his satisfaction, may dismiss or suspend from the exercise of his office any person holding any public office within the Colony, or, may take such other disciplinary action as may seem to him desirable.

===== Page 90 =====
12. When any offence has been committed for which the offender may be tried within the Colony, the Governor may, as he shall see occasion, in His Majesty’s name and on His Majesty’s behalf, grant a pardon to any accomplice in such offence who shall give such information as shall lead to the conviction of the principal offender or any one of such offenders if more than one; and further may grant to any offender convicted of any such offence in any Court within the Colony, a pardon either free or subject to lawful conditions, or any respite either indefinite or for such period as the Governor may see fit, of the execution of any sentence passed on such offender and may remit the whole or any part of such sentence or of any penalties or forfeitures otherwise due to His Majesty.

13. There shall be an Executive Council for the Colony, and the said Council shall consist of such persons as His Majesty shall direct by Instructions under His Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, and all such persons shall hold their places in the Executive Council during His Majesty’s pleasure and, subject thereto, for such period and upon such conditions as may be specified in any such Instructions.

PART III.

COURTS.

14.—(1) There shall be in and for the Colony a Court of unlimited civil and criminal jurisdiction to be called the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court shall be a Court of Record and may consist of a High Court and a Court of Appeal.

(2) There shall be a Chief Justice appointed by His Majesty by Letters Patent, or by the Governor by Letters Patent under the Public Seal in accordance with such instructions as he may receive from His Majesty through a Secretary of State, and as many Judges of the Supreme Court, appointed similarly or in manner prescribed, as may from time to time be required. The Chief Justice and Judges of the Supreme Court shall hold office during His Majesty’s pleasure.

(3) The constitution, powers and procedure of the Supreme Court and provisions relating to appeals therefrom to His Majesty in Council and provisions relating to the qualifications, order of precedence, duties and powers of Judges, and appointment of temporary Judges, may, subject to the provisions of this Order, be prescribed by laws made under this Order.

15.—(1) Courts subordinate to the Supreme Court and Courts of special jurisdiction may be constituted by laws made under this Order.

(2) Provision may be made by such laws for the hearing and determining of appeals from any such Court by the Supreme Court or otherwise.

PART IV.

LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.

16.—(1) There shall be a Legislative Council in and for the Colony, constituted in accordance with the provisions of this Order.

(2) The Council shall consist of the Governor as President, four ex officio Members, and such Nominated Official Members, not exceeding seven, such Nominated Unofficial Members not exceeding two, and such

===== Page 91 =====
Elected Members not exceeding nine as His Majesty shall direct by Instructions under His Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State.

17. The ex officio Members shall be the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary and the President of the Municipal Commissioners.

18. The Nominated Official Members shall be persons holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony, and shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of His Majesty’s Instructions through a Secretary of State.

19. The Nominated Unofficial Members shall be British subjects or Malayan Union citizens of the age of twenty-one or upwards not holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony, and shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of His Majesty’s Instructions through a Secretary of State.

20. The Elected Members shall be British subjects of the age of twenty-one years or upwards, not holding any office of emolument under the Crown, qualified as voters under any prescribed provision, who, the prescribed person is satisfied, are able to speak, and unless incapacitated by blindness or other physical cause, to read and write, the English language with a degree of proficiency sufficient to enable them to take an active part in the proceedings of the Council. Elected Members shall be elected in the manner prescribed.

21. No person shall be capable of being appointed or elected a Member of the Legislative Council or, having been appointed or elected, shall sit and vote therein, who at the time of appointment or election—

(1) is a person found or declared to be of unsound mind under any law in force in the Colony; or

(2) has, in any part of His Majesty’s dominions or in any territory under His Majesty’s protection, been sentenced to death or penal servitude or to imprisonment by whatever name called, for a term exceeding six months and has not either suffered the punishment to which he was sentenced or such other punishment as may by competent authority have been substituted therefor or received a free pardon; or

(3) is an undischarged bankrupt; or

(4) (a) in the case of a Nominated Unofficial Member is a party to, or a member of a firm or a director or manager of a company which is a party to, any subsisting contract with the Government of the Colony for or on account of the public service or is otherwise to his knowledge interested in any such contract and shall not have disclosed to the Governor the nature of such contract and his interest or the interest, or any such firm or company therein; or

(b) in the case of an Elected Member, is a party to, or a member of a firm, or a director or manager of a company which is a party to any subsisting contract with the Government of the Colony for or on account of the public service or is otherwise to his knowledge interested in any such contract and has not published within one month before the day of election, in the Gazette or in some newspaper circulating in the Colony, a notice setting out the nature of such contract and his interest or the interest of any such firm or company therein; or

(5) in the case of an Elected Member is disqualified for membership of the Council under any law for the time being in force in the Colony relating to offences connected with the election of Members.

===== Page 92 =====
22.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, every Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council shall hold his seat in the Legislative Council during His Majesty's pleasure.

(2) Every Member shall in any case cease to be a Member at the next dissolution of the Legislative Council after his appointment or election, or previously if his seat shall become vacant under the provisions of this Order.

(3) The seat of a Member of the Legislative Council (other than an ex officio Member) shall become vacant—

(a) upon his death; or

(b) if he shall, without the leave of the Governor, be absent from two consecutive meetings of the Council; or

(c) if he shall cease to be a British subject; or shall take any oath, or make any declaration or acknowledgment of allegiance, obedience or adherence to any foreign power or State; or shall do, concur in or adopt any act done with the intention that he shall become a subject or citizen of any foreign Power or State; or

(d) if he shall be declared a bankrupt under any law in force in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection; or

(e) if in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection, he shall be sentenced to death, or imprisonment, by whatever name called, for a term exceeding six months; or

(f) if he shall be found or declared insane under any law in force in the Colony; or

(g) if he shall become disqualified for membership of the Council under any law or regulation for the time being in force in the Colony relating to offences connected with the election of Members; or

(h) if, being a Nominated Official Member, a Nominated Unofficial Member or Elected Member, he shall, by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor resign his seat in the Legislative Council; or

(i) if, being a Nominated Official Member, he shall cease to hold office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony; or

(j) if, being an Elected Member, he shall be appointed to or act in any such office or being a Nominated Unofficial Member he shall be appointed permanently to any such office; or

(k) if he shall otherwise cease to possess qualification for election or appointment, as the case may be; or

(l) if, being a Nominated Unofficial Member or Elected Member, he shall, without the approval of the Governor, become a party to, or if any firm in which he is a partner, or any company of which he is a director or manager, shall become a party to, or if he shall be otherwise interested in, any contract with the Government of the Colony for or on account of the Public service and shall not before the making of the contract have disclosed to the Governor the nature of such contract and his interest, or the interest of any such firm or company therein.

===== Page 93 =====
(4) If a Nominated Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council shall be appointed temporarily to any office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony, or shall be appointed to act in any such office, he shall not sit or vote in the Legislative Council as an Unofficial Member so long as he continues to hold or to act in that office.

(5) Any person vacating a seat as a Member of the Legislative Council may, if qualified, be again appointed or elected as a Member from time to time.

(6) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council, and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared, in manner aforesaid, to be again capable of discharging his said functions.

(7) The Governor may by Instrument under the Public Seal suspend any Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the Legislative Council. Every such suspension shall forthwith be reported by the Governor to His Majesty through a Secretary of State, and shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal or by His Majesty through a Secretary of State, or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the Legislative Council.

(8) All questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain an Elected Member shall be determined in such manner as may be prescribed.

(9) All questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain a Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member shall be referred to and decided by the Governor in Council, whose decision shall be final and shall not be called in question in any Court in the Colony.

23.—(1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Legislative Council, as ex officio Members, or Nominated Official Members or Nominated Unofficial Members, by reason of the fact that—

(a) an ex officio Member is administering the Government of the Colony; or

(b) one person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the four officers specified in section 17 of this Order; or

(c) no person is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or

(d) a Nominated Official Member is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or

(e) the seat of a Nominated Official Member or of a Nominated Unofficial Member is vacant for any cause other than a dissolution of the Council; or

(f) a Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in this Order, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or

(g) a Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or

===== Page 94 =====
(h) a Member is absent from the Colony; or

(i) a Nominated Unofficial Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of his having been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony or to act in any such office;

the Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint a person to be a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) If the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Nominated Official Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as a Nominated Official Member; and if the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Nominated Unofficial Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as a Nominated Unofficial Member.

(3) Every person appointed to be a Temporary Member under this section shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Nominated Official Members, a Nominated Official Member;

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Nominated Unofficial Members, a Nominated Unofficial Member;

and, subject to the provisions of this section, the provisions of section 22 of this Order shall apply accordingly:

Provided that, in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed shall not be regarded as a Nominated Official Member in computing the number of such Members for the purposes of sub-section (2) of section 16 of this Order.

(4) The Governor shall forthwith report every such temporary appointment to His Majesty through a Secretary of State. Any such appointment may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be disallowed by His Majesty through a Secretary of State or revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment under this section shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of disallowance by His Majesty or of revocation by the Governor or on supersession of the appointment by the definitive appointment of a person to fill the vacancy or when the vacancy shall otherwise cease to exist.

24. The Governor may summon to any meeting of the Legislative Council any person holding public office under the Crown in the Colony, notwithstanding that such person may not be a Member of the Council, when, in the opinion of the Governor, the business before the Council renders the presence of such person desirable. Any person so summoned shall be entitled to take part in the proceedings of the Council relating to the business in respect of which he is summoned as if he were a Member of the Council, except that he shall not have the right to vote in the Council.

25. The Governor, if present, shall preside at meetings of the Council, and, in his absence, such Member as the Governor may appoint or, in the absence of such Member, or if no Member be so appointed, the senior Member of Council actually present shall preside.

===== Page 95 =====
Quorum.

26. No business except that of adjournment shall be transacted by the Council if objection is taken by any Member present that there are present less than one quarter of the Members besides the Governor or other Member presiding.

Precedence of Members.

27.—(1) After the Governor the Members of the Council shall take precedence as His Majesty may specially assign and, if precedence be not so assigned, as follows:

First, the ex officio Members in the order in which they are mentioned in section 17 of this Order;

Secondly, the Nominated Official Members appointed under section 18 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments as Nominated Official Members, or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Thirdly, Nominated Official Members temporarily appointed under section 23 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Fourthly, the Nominated Unofficial Members and Elected Members according to the lengths of time during which they have been continuously Members of the Council: Members elected or appointed at the same time taking precedence among themselves as the Governor may assign.

(2) For the purposes of the preceding sub-section—

(a) when the Council is dissolved, Nominated Official Members and Nominated Unofficial Members appointed to fill vacancies caused thereby shall be deemed to have been appointed, and Members elected at the ensuing elections shall be deemed to have been elected by virtue of those elections, at the date on which the report of the first successful candidate for election is made to the Governor; and

(b) paragraph (a) of this sub-section shall apply to the Members elected or appointed to the Legislative Council as first constituted under this Order as if such elections or appointments were consequent upon a dissolution of the Council; and

(c) in ascertaining the period during which a person has continuously been an Elected Member or a Nominated Unofficial Member of the Council, no account shall be taken of any interval between the vacation by that person of his seat in the Council in consequence of a dissolution of the Council and the date of his re-election or re-appointment to fill a vacancy in the Council caused by that dissolution.

Part V

LEGISLATION AND PROCEDURE IN LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.

28. Subject to the provisions of this Order, it shall be lawful for the Governor, with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council, to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Colony.

===== Page 96 =====
29. Save as otherwise provided in this Order, all questions proposed for decision in the Council shall be determined by a majority of the votes of the Members present and voting. The Governor shall not have an original vote, but, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, he shall have a casting vote. In the absence of the Governor, the Member presiding shall have an original vote and also, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, a casting vote.

30.—(1) If the Governor shall consider that it is expedient in the interests of public order, public faith or good government that any Bill introduced or any motion proposed in the Council shall have effect, then if the Council fail to pass such a Bill or motion within such time and in such form as the Governor may think reasonable and expedient, the Governor, at any time in his discretion, may, notwithstanding any provisions of this Order or of any Standing Rules or Orders of the Council, declare that such Bill or motion shall have effect as if it had been passed by the Council, either in the form in which it was so introduced or proposed or with such amendments as the Governor shall think fit which have been moved or proposed in the Council or in any Committee thereof; and thereupon the said Bill or motion shall have effect as if it had been so passed, and, in the case of any such Bill, the provisions of this Order, relating to assent to Bills and disallowance of laws shall apply accordingly.

(2) In this section the expression "public order, public faith or good government" shall without prejudice to their generality, include the following:

(a) the responsibility of the Colony as a component part of the British Empire, including foreign relations and relations with other parts of the British Empire;

(b) all questions relating to defence, including provision, construction, maintenance and use of defence works, areas and communications;

(c) subjects upon which, in the opinion of the Governor or of a Secretary of State, it is necessary to secure uniformity in Legislation between the Colony and the Malayan Union; and

(d) all matters pertaining to the creation or abolition of any public office and to the appointment, salary or other conditions of service of any public officer or officers.

(3) The Governor shall forthwith report to a Secretary of State every case in which he shall make any such declaration as is mentioned in sub-section (1) of this section and the reason therefor.

(4) If any Member of the Legislative Council objects to any declaration made under this section, he may, within seven days of the making thereof, submit to the Governor a statement in writing of his reasons for so objecting and a copy of such statement shall, if furnished by such Member, be forwarded by the Governor as soon as practicable to a Secretary of State.

(5) Any such declaration, other than a declaration relating to a Bill, may be revoked by a Secretary of State, and the Governor shall notify such revocation in the Gazette; and from the date of such notification any resolution which shall have had effect by virtue of the declaration revoked shall cease to have effect and the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 38 of the Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply to such revocation as they apply to the repeal of an Act of Parliament.

===== Page 97 =====
31.—(1) No Bill shall become a law until either the Governor shall assent thereto in His Majesty’s name and on His Majesty’s behalf, and shall sign the same in token of assent, or His Majesty shall give his assent thereto through a Secretary of State.

(2) When a Bill is presented to the Governor for his assent, he shall, according to his discretion but subject to the provisions of this Order and of any instructions addressed to him under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, declare that he assents or refuses to assent thereto, or that he reserves the Bill for the signification of His Majesty’s pleasure.

(3) A law assented to by the Governor shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the date on which such assent shall be given, or, if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment (including any enactment in force at the commencement of this Order) that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

(4) A Bill reserved for the signification of His Majesty’s pleasure shall become a law so soon as His Majesty shall have given His assent thereto, through a Secretary of State, and the Governor shall have signified such assent by Proclamation in the Gazette. Every such law shall come into operation on the date of such Proclamation or, if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment (including any enactment in force at the commencement of this Order) that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

32.—(1) Any law to which the Governor shall have given his assent may be disallowed by His Majesty through a Secretary of State.

(2) Whenever any law has been disallowed by His Majesty, the Governor shall cause notice of such disallowance to be published in the Gazette.

(3) Without prejudice to anything lawfully done thereunder, every law so disallowed shall cease to have effect as soon as notice of such disallowance shall be published as aforesaid. Thereafter any enactment repealed or amended by such law shall have effect as if such law had not been made, but save as aforesaid, the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 38 of the Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply to such disallowance as they apply to the repeal of an Act of Parliament.

33. Subject to the provisions of this Order, the Governor and the Council shall, in the transaction of business and the passing of laws, conform as nearly as may be to the directions contained in any Instructions under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet which may from time to time be addressed to the Governor in that behalf.

34. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of such Instructions as aforesaid, the Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its own proceedings and the conduct of business and for the passing, intitulating and numbering of Bills, and for the presentation of the same to the Governor for his assent, but no such Rules or Orders shall have effect unless and until they shall have been approved by the Governor.

35. The official language of the Council shall be English.

===== Page 98 =====
36. Except for the purpose of enabling this section to be complied with, no Member shall sit or vote in the Council until he shall have taken and subscribed before the Governor, or some person authorised by the Governor in that behalf, the Oath of Allegiance in the form set out in the First Schedule to this Order:

Provided that every person authorised by law to make an affirmation instead of taking an oath in legal proceedings may make such affirmation in like terms instead of the said oath.

37. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council, any Member may introduce any Bill or propose any motion for debate in, or may present any petition to, the Council, and the same shall be debated and disposed of according to the Standing Rules and Orders:

Provided that, except with the recommendation or consent of the Governor signified thereto, the Council shall not proceed upon any Bill, amendment, motion or petition, which, in the opinion of the Governor or of the presiding Member would—

(a) dispose of, or charge any public revenue or public funds of the Colony, or revoke or alter any disposition thereof or charge thereon, or impose, alter, or repeal any rate, tax or duty; or

(b) suspend the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council or any of them.

38.—(1) The sessions of the Legislative Council shall be held at such times and places as the Governor shall from time to time by Proclamation appoint.

(2) There shall be a session of the Council once at least in every year, so that a period of twelve months shall not intervene between the last sitting in one session and the first sitting in the next session.

39.—(1) The Governor may, at any time, by Proclamation, prorogue or dissolve the Legislative Council.

(2) On dissolution, all Members shall vacate their seats and the Council shall be reconstituted by election and appointment in accordance with the provisions of this Order at such time within three months of the dissolution, as the Governor shall by Proclamation appoint.

PART VI

TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

40.—(1) Until such time as section 13 and Parts IV and V of this Order shall come into operation, it shall be lawful for the Governor to make laws for the peace order and good government of the Colony.

(2) In making such laws the Governor shall consult the Advisory Council.

(3) Section 32 of the Order shall apply to any law made under this section as it applies to a law assented to by the Governor.

41.—(1) There shall be an Advisory Council which shall consist of the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary and such other persons as the Governor may by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint; and such persons shall hold their places in the said Council during the Governor’s pleasure.

===== Page 99 =====
(2) The Governor alone shall be entitled to submit questions to the Advisory Council for their advice. The Governor may act in opposition to the advice given to him by the Members of the Advisory Council if he shall in any case deem it right so to do. In such case, it shall be competent to any Member of the Advisory Council to require that there be recorded on the Minutes any advice or opinion he may give upon the question and the grounds therefor.

(3) The Governor may regulate the procedure and practice of the Advisory Council in such manner as he shall see fit.

(4) The Governor may, by Proclamation in the Gazette, declare that this section shall cease to have effect, and thereupon this section shall cease to have effect accordingly on the date specified in the Proclamation.

42.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, the existing laws shall, except in so far as the same shall, in their application to the Colony or any part thereof be repealed, amended or otherwise affected by or under any Act of Parliament, Order of His Majesty in Council or any law made under the provisions of this Order, continue to have effect in the Colony or in that part thereof to which such law applied prior to the appointed day, but shall be construed subject to such modifications as may be necessary to bring them into conformity with the provisions of this Order.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section, the existing laws shall, except as aforesaid, in their application to the Colony, be construed, where the context admits, subject to the following modifications:

(a) references to the Colony of the Straits Settlements shall be construed as referring (but not exclusively) to the Colony;

(b) references to the Settlement of Singapore shall be construed as references to the Colony;

(c) references to the Governor or Governor in Council, or to any officer of the Colony of the Straits Settlements, or to any officer of, or authority or body constituted in or for, the Straits Settlements, shall be construed as references to the Governor or Governor in Council, or to the corresponding officer of, or authority or body constituted in or for the Colony, as the case may be; and

(d) references to the Chief Justice or to any Court, Judge or Magistrate of the Straits Settlements shall be construed as references to the Chief Justice or to the corresponding Court, Judge or Magistrate of the Colony.

(3) The adaptations and modifications specified in the second column of the Second Schedule to this Order shall be made in the enactments mentioned in the first column of that Schedule.

43. Subject to the express provisions of this Order, nothing in this Order shall affect the validity or future operation of any lawful act done by any person or authority before the appointed day in any territory comprised in the Colony.

===== Page 100 =====
44. All proceedings other than proceedings in the Prize Court commenced before the 15th day of February, 1942, in any Court of Justice in or having jurisdiction in the territory comprised in the Colony may be carried on in like manner as nearly as may be, as if this Order and the Act of 1946 had not been made or passed but in the corresponding Court of the Colony, and any such proceeding may be amended in such manner as may appear necessary or proper in order to bring it into conformity with the provisions of the Act of 1946 and of this Order.

45. Courts constituted for the Colony shall have within their respective powers, jurisdiction with respect to all offences (including offences against Proclamations issued by, or under the Authority of the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia) and causes of action (other than matters of Prize) committed or arising before the appointed day for which the accused might have been tried, or proceedings might have been had, within the Settlement of Singapore under the law (including the provisions of any such Proclamation) in force in the Straits Settlements prior to the appointed day, and such jurisdiction shall be exercised in conformity with the law applicable in the Settlement of Singapore at the date when the offence was committed or the cause of action arose and in accordance, as nearly as may be, with the procedure in force in Courts constituted under this Order.

46. Military Courts established in the Settlement of Singapore by the British Military Administration by virtue of any Proclamation made by, or under the authority of, the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia, in which proceedings have been commenced and are pending at the date hereof shall be deemed to be lawfully constituted Courts with jurisdiction to continue and conclude such proceedings and to issue warrants for the custody of prisoners and the carrying out of sentences in accordance with such Proclamation, after the appointed day. The powers and functions of a confirming authority or reviewing authority under any such Proclamation may be exercised by such person or persons as the Governor shall designate in that behalf.

47.—(i) In this section—

(i) "Straits Settlements property" means property which, immediately before the appointed day, was vested in, or was in the possession, or under the control, or held on account, of His Majesty, or the Government of the Straits Settlements, or any officer of such Government, for any of the purposes of that Government.

(ii) Any reference to property vested in any person or authority shall be construed as including a reference to any property in the possession, or under the control, or held on account, of that person or authority; and any direction that property shall be vested in any person or authority shall likewise be construed as including a direction, as the case may require, that the possession or control of property shall be transferred to, or that property shall be held on account of, that person or authority.

===== Page 101 =====
(2) Save as in this section otherwise provided, all Straits Settlements property which was immediately before the appointed day, either—

(a) immovable property situate in the Settlement of Singapore; or

(b) vested solely for a purpose of the Government of the Straits Settlements which will, after the appointed day, be a purpose of the Government of the Colony;

shall vest in His Majesty or in the appropriate officer of the Government of the Colony, or in the person or body prescribed under sub-section (6) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Colony.

(3) Save as in this section otherwise provided, any Straits Settlements property which was, immediately before the appointed day, vested for any purpose of the Straits Settlements Government common to the Settlement of Singapore and to any other territory or territories formerly included in the Straits Settlements, but not included in the Colony, shall vest in His Majesty or in the person or body prescribed under sub-section (6) of this section but shall be apportioned between the Colony and any such territory by agreement between the Governor and the Governor of such territory with the approval of a Secretary of State; or, in default of such agreement, shall be apportioned by order of a Secretary of State. Any such agreement or order may contain provision for the assessment of values, for the perfecting of any transfer of property mentioned therein, and for financial and other adjustments, and may contain such other provisions as may be considered necessary or expedient for carrying the apportionment into effect.

(4) Any Straits Settlements property apportioned to the Colony under sub-section (3) of this section shall be vested in His Majesty, or the appropriate officer of the Government of the Colony, or the persons or body prescribed under sub-section (6) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Colony; and the Governor may make such vesting or other orders as may be necessary for carrying the provisions of this section into effect, and for such purpose may appoint and empower persons to transfer property.

(5) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, any property which, immediately before the appointed day was vested in the Ruler of any of the Malay States, for any of the following purposes, shall continue to be vested in the Sultan of the State for the same purposes, that is to say:

(a) any property held by, or in trust for, or for the benefit of a Ruler for his official or personal use; or

(b) any building or land used for purposes of the Muhammadan religion, or property pertaining to the endowment of Muhammadan religious institutions:

Nothing in this section shall affect the use or enjoyment of any property vested in a Ruler or in His Majesty for any of the said purposes.

(6) The Governor may make regulations for determining, in cases of doubt, the person or body in whom property affected by this section shall be vested, and generally for giving effect to this section, and may by order, exclude any particular property from the operation of this section, or declare, for the removal of doubt, whether, and in what manner, any particular property is affected thereby.

===== Page 102 =====
48.—(1) All liabilities incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Straits Settlements for any of the purposes of such Government (other than liabilities incurred solely for a purpose which will, after the appointed day, be a purpose of the Government of any territory formerly included in the Straits Settlements, but not included in the Colony) shall be deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Colony.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section:

(a) Such liabilities shall include claims in respect of Loans and War Savings Certificates issued, and Post Office Savings Bank deposits received, by the Government of the Straits Settlements.

(b) Claims to pensions, gratuities and other like allowances in respect of service under the Government of the Straits Settlements before the appointed day, whether arising before or after that day, shall be liabilities deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Colony.

(3) It shall be lawful for the Governor, with the approval of a Secretary of State, to make, vary, rescind and carry into effect, arrangements with the Governor of any territory formerly included in the Straits Settlements, but not included in the Colony, for the payment by the Government of that territory to the Government of the Colony, of proportionate contributions towards the sums necessary to defray the liabilities of the Government of the Straits Settlements transferred by this Order to the Government of the Colony including liabilities for the service and repayment of Loans and War Savings Certificates issued, Post Office Savings Bank deposits received, and pensions, allowances and gratuities payable, by the Government of the Straits Settlements.

(4) Claims in respect of liabilities deemed, by virtue of this section, to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Colony which, if the Act of 1946 had not been passed and this Order had not been made, might have been enforced against His Majesty in His Government of the Straits Settlements, or against any officer of such Government in his official capacity or against any department of such Government, in connection with the administration of the Straits Settlements, may be enforced, in such manner as may be prescribed by laws for the time being in force or by regulations made by the Governor under sub-section (5) of this section, against His Majesty in His Government of the Colony or against the appropriate officer of that Government, as the case may be.

(5) The Governor, with the approval of a Secretary of State, may make regulations for determining in any case of doubt the person or body by or against whom claims may be enforced under this section and generally for giving effect thereto.

49. The provisions of sections 42 to 48 inclusive of this Order may be amended by laws made under Part V or under section 40 of this Order.

PART VII.

MISCELLANEOUS.

50.—(1) Provision may be made by laws made under this Order, and, until such provision has been made, by regulations made by the Governor, regulating any matter which by this Order or by Instructions under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet is to be prescribed.

Provisions necessary to give effect to this Order.

===== Page 103 =====
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section, provision may be made regulating the election to the Legislative Council of Elected Members, including provision for regulating any of the following matters, that is to say:

(a) the persons, associations or bodies by whom Members are to be elected;
(b) the holding of elections;
(c) the qualifications of voters;
(d) the registration of voters;
(e) the ascertainment of the qualifications of voters and candidates;
(f) offences in relation to elections including the trial and punishment thereof;
(g) the disposal of election petitions and the determination of questions otherwise arising regarding membership of the Council.

(3) Such regulations shall be published in the Gazette; and thereafter every such regulation shall take effect on the day of publication or on such other date as may be therein specified and shall have the force of law.

Unqualified persons sitting or voting. Penalty.

51.—(1) Any person who—

(a) having been elected or appointed a Member of the Legislative Council, but not having been, at the time of such election or appointment, qualified to be so elected or appointed, shall sit or vote in the Legislative Council; or

(b) shall sit or vote in the Legislative Council after his seat thereon has become vacant or he has become disqualified from sitting or voting therein;

knowing, or having reasonable grounds for knowing, that he was so disqualified, or that his seat has become vacant, as the case may be, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding two hundred dollars for every day upon which he so sits or votes.

(2) The said penalty shall be recoverable by action in the Supreme Court at the suit of the Attorney General.

Vacancies not to disqualify.

52. No Council constituted by this Order shall be disqualified from the transaction of business by reason of any vacancy among the Members, or by reason of the sitting or voting therein of any unqualified or disqualified person.

Retrospective effect of laws.

53. For the avoidance of doubts it is hereby declared that any law or regulation made under this Order may be made to operate retrospectively to any date.

Labuan.

54. Until other provision shall be made for the government and administration of the Settlement of Labuan and its Dependencies (in this section referred to as “Labuan”) Labuan shall be a part of the Colony, and this Order shall have effect in all respects as if the Colony included Labuan:

Provided that the provisions of this Order shall not come into operation in Labuan until such day or days as the Governor may by Order appoint and the Governor may fix different days for different purposes and different provisions of this Order; and the Governor may by Order make such adaptations and modifications as the Governor may seem expedient, in the said provisions in their application to Labuan.

===== Page 104 =====
55.—(1) If any difficulty shall arise in bringing into operation any of the provisions of this Order or in giving effect to the purposes thereof, a Secretary of State may, by Order, make such provision as seems to him necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing the difficulty and may by such Order amend or add to any provision of this Order:

Provided that no Order under this section shall be made later than the first day of January, 1948.

(2) Any Order under this section may be amended, added to, or revoked by further Order, and may be given retrospective effect to a day not earlier than the appointed day.

56. Nothing in this Order shall affect the power of His Majesty in Council to make laws from time to time for the peace, order and good government of the Colony.

Removal of difficulties.

Power reserved to His Majesty.

E. C. E. Leadbitter.

===== Page 105 =====
FIRST SCHEDULE

OATH OF ALLEGIANCE.
(Sections 6 and 36).

I, ..., do swear that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to His Majesty King George VI, His Heirs and Successors, according to Law. So help me God.

OATH FOR THE DUE EXECUTION OF THE OFFICE OF GOVERNOR.

I, ..., do swear that I will well and truly serve His Majesty King George VI, His Heirs and Successors, in the Office of Governor. So help me God.

THE SECOND SCHEDULE.
(Section 42 (3)).

Adaptation of Acts of Parliament.

Title of Act.

1. The Straits Settlements Offences Act, 1874.

37 & 38 Vict. c. 38.

1. The Act shall have effect as if the word "territories" were substituted for the word "Colony" wherever such last mentioned word occurs; and the territories of the Straits Settlements (in the Act called the colony of the Straits Settlements) shall be deemed to include (among other territories) the Colony of Singapore.

2. The Straits Settlements and Johore Territorial Waters (Agreement) Act, 1928.

18 & 19 Geo. V. c. 23.

2. The Act and the agreement scheduled thereto shall have effect as if the words "the Colony of Singapore" were substituted for the words "the Straits Settlements" and for the words "the Settlement of Singapore" wherever such words occur.

Printed by His Majesty's Stationery Office Press,
Drury Lane, W.C.2.

===== Page 106 =====
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE

The 27th day of March, 1946

Present

THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL

Whereas there was this day read at the Board a letter to the Lord President of the Council from the Right Honourable George Henry Hall, one of His Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, transmitting the Draft of Instructions to be given to the Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Colony of Singapore:

His Majesty, having taken the same into consideration, was pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council, to approve thereof, and to order, as it is hereby ordered, that the Right Honourable George Henry Hall, one of His Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, do prepare the said Instructions (which are hereunto annexed) for His Majesty's Royal Signature.

E. C. E. Leadbitter.

===== Page 107 =====
INSTRUCTIONS to Our Governor and Commander-in-Chief in and over Our Colony of Singapore, or to any other officer for the time being administering the Government of Our said Colony.

Recites Order in Council.

WHEREAS by the Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946 (hereinafter called "the Order in Council") We have ordered and declared that as from the appointed day there shall be a Governor and Commander-in-Chief (in the Order in Council and hereinafter called "the Governor") in and over Our Colony of Singapore (in the Order in Council and hereinafter called "the Colony"):

AND WHEREAS We have by the Order in Council empowered and commanded the Governor to do all things that belong to his said office in accordance with the Order in Council and such Commission as may be issued to him under Our Sign Manual and Signet and according to such Instructions as may from time to time be given to him under Our Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, and such Orders in Council and other laws as may from time to time be in force in the Colony:

AND WHEREAS We are minded to issue these Our Instructions under Our Sign Manual and Signet for the guidance of the Governor and any other Officer who may administer the Government of the Colony:

NOW, THEREFORE, as from the appointed day, We do hereby direct and enjoin and declare Our Will and pleasure as follows:

1. The Governor may, whenever he thinks fit, require any person in the public service of the Colony to take the Oath of Allegiance in the form prescribed by the Order in Council, together with such other oath or oaths as may from time to time be prescribed by any laws in force in the Colony. The Governor is to administer such oaths or cause them to be administered by some public officer of the Colony.

2. Whenever there is a subsisting appointment of a Deputy to the Governor under the Order in Council, these Instructions, so far as they apply to any matter or thing to be done, or any powers or functions to be exercised or performed by such Deputy, shall be deemed to be addressed to and shall be observed by such Deputy.

3. The Executive Council of the Colony shall consist of the Governor as Chairman, four ex officio members, that is to say the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary and the President of the Municipal Commissioners, Singapore, together with two members (hereinafter called Official Members) holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony and four members (hereinafter called Unofficial Members) not holding such office to be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of instructions from Us through a Secretary of State.

===== Page 108 =====
4.—(1) Subject to the provisions of the Order in Council, every Official or Unofficial Member of the Executive Council shall hold his seat in Council during Our pleasure, and, subject thereto, for three years from the date of the Instrument by which he is appointed, or until such earlier date as may be provided by that Instrument or upon which his seat shall become vacant under the provisions of these Instructions.

If any person is appointed to be a Temporary Member of the Council and his temporary appointment is immediately followed by his definitive appointment, the said period of three years shall be reckoned from the date of the Instrument by which he is temporarily appointed.

(2) The seat of a Member of the Executive Council shall become vacant—
(a) upon his death; or
(b) if, being an Official Member, he shall cease to hold office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony; or
(c) if, being an Unofficial Member, he shall be appointed permanently to any such office; or
(d) if he shall by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor, resign his seat on the Executive Council; or
(e) if he shall be absent from the Colony without written permission from the Governor:

Provided that a member shall not be deemed to be absent from the Colony for the purposes of this paragraph by reason only of absence in the Malayan Union for a period not exceeding one month.

(3) Any person vacating a seat as a Member of the Executive Council may, if qualified, be again appointed from time to time.

(4) If an Unofficial Member be appointed temporarily to any office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony or to act in any such office, he shall not sit as an Unofficial Member of the Executive Council so long as he continues to hold or act in that office.

(5) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, suspend any Official or Unofficial Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the Executive Council. Every such suspension shall forthwith be reported by the Governor to Us through a Secretary of State and shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal, or by Us through a Secretary of State, or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the Executive Council.

(6) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Official or Unofficial Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council, and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared in manner aforesaid, to be again capable of discharging his said functions.

5.—(1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council by reason of the fact that—
(a) an ex officio or Official Member is administering the Government of the Colony; or
(b) one person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the four officers specified in Clause 3 of these Instructions; or

===== Page 109 =====
(c) No person is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or

(d) a Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or

(e) the seat of a Member is vacant for any cause; or

(f) a Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in these Instructions, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or

(g) a Member is absent from the Colony; or

(h) an Unofficial Member has been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony or to act in any such office;

a person may be appointed a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) The said person shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal and—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as ex officio or Official Members, shall be a person holding office or emolument under the Crown in the Colony; and

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as Unofficial Members, shall be a person not holding any such office.

(3) Every person so appointed shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of Members sitting in the Executive Council as ex officio Members or as Official Members, an Official Member;

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as Unofficial Members, an Unofficial Member; and, subject to the provisions of this clause, the provisions of Clause 4 of these Instructions shall apply accordingly:

Provided that, in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed shall not be regarded as an Official Member in computing the number of such Members for purposes of Clause 3 of these Instructions.

(4) The Governor shall forthwith report every such temporary appointment to Us through a Secretary of State. Any such appointment may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be disallowed by Us through a Secretary of State or revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment under this clause shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of disallowance by Us or of revocation by the Governor, or on supersession of the appointment by the definitive appointment of a person to fill the vacancy, or when the vacancy shall otherwise cease to exist.

===== Page 110 =====
6. The Members of the Executive Council shall take precedence as we may specially assign and, in the absence of such assignment, as follows:

First, the ex officio Members in the order in which they are specified in Clause 3 of these Instructions;

Secondly, the Official Members according to the priority of their appointments as Official Members, or, if appointed on the same day, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor;

Thirdly, the Official Members temporarily appointed under Clause 5 in such order as may be assigned by the Governor;

Fourthly, the Unofficial Members in order according to the dates when they were first appointed to be Members, or Temporary Members as the case may be, of the Executive Council, and, in the case of more than one appointment on the same day, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor or, in the absence of such assignment, according to the alphabetical order of their surnames:

Provided that, where a Member is re-appointed to fill a vacancy caused by the termination of his own term of office, the date from which he has been continuously a Member of the Council (any interval between such termination and re-appointment being disregarded) shall be regarded as the date of his appointment for the purpose of this clause.

7.—(1) The Executive Council shall not be summoned except by the authority of the Governor.

(2) The Executive Council shall not be disqualified for the transaction of business by reason of any vacancy among the Members; but no business except that of adjournment shall be transacted if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than three Members present besides the Governor or Member presiding.

8. The Governor shall, so far as is practicable, attend and preside at all meetings of the Executive Council, and, in his absence, such Member as the Governor may appoint or, in the absence of such Member or if no Member be so appointed, the Senior Member of the Council actually present shall preside.

9. The Governor shall consult with the Executive Council in the execution of all powers and authorities conferred upon him, except in cases—

(a) which are of such a nature that, in his judgment, Our service would sustain material prejudice by consulting the Council thereupon; or

(b) in which the matters to be decided shall be too unimportant to require their advice; or

(c) in which the matters are too urgent to admit of their advice being given by the time within which it may be necessary for him to act.

In every case falling within paragraph (c) of this clause, he shall, as soon as practicable, communicate to the Council the measures which he shall have adopted with the reasons therefor.

===== Page 111 =====
Governor to propose questions.

10. The Governor shall alone be entitled to submit questions to the Executive Council; but if the Governor declines to submit any question to the Council when requested in writing by any Member so to do, it shall be competent to such Member to require that there be recorded upon the Minutes his written application together with the answer returned by the Governor thereto.

Governor may act in opposition to Executive Council.

11. The Governor may act in opposition to the advice given to him by Members of the Executive Council, if in any case it shall in his judgment be right so to do; but in any such case he shall, at the first convenient opportunity, fully report the matter to Us through a Secretary of State with the reasons for his action. In every such case it shall be competent to any Member of the Council to require that there be recorded upon the Minutes any advice or opinion that he may give upon the question and the grounds therefor.

Governor to communicate Instructions to Executive Council.

12. The Governor shall forthwith communicate to the Executive Council these Our Instructions and all such others as, from time to time, We may direct or he shall find convenient for Our service to impart to them.

Minutes of the Executive and Legislative Councils.

13. Minutes shall be kept of all the proceedings of the Executive Council and of the Legislative Council. At every meeting of each Council the Minutes of the last preceding meeting shall be confirmed, with or without amendment as the case may require, before proceeding to the despatch of any other business. Twice in each year a full transcript of all Minutes of each Council for the preceding half-year shall be transmitted to Us through a Secretary of State.

Rules for the enactment of Ordinances.

14. In the making of laws the Governor and the Legislative Council shall observe, as far as practicable, the following Rules:

(1) All laws shall be styled "Ordinances" and the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor of the Colony of Singapore, with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council":

Provided that in the case of:

(a) any law made by the Governor under section 40 of the Order in Council, the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor of the Colony of Singapore in accordance with the provisions of section 40 of the Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946"; and

(b) in the case of any law having effect by virtue of a declaration made by the Governor under section 30 of the Order in Council, the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor in accordance with the provisions of section 30 of the Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946".

(2) All Ordinances shall be distinguished by titles, and shall be divided into successive sections consecutively numbered, and to every section there shall be annexed in the margin a short indication of its contents. The Ordinances enacted in each year shall be designated by consecutive numbers, commencing in each year with the number one.

===== Page 112 =====
(3) Each different matter shall be provided for by a different Ordinance without intermixing in one and the same Ordinance such things as have no proper relation to each other. No provision shall be inserted in any Ordinance which shall be foreign to what the title of such Ordinance imports; and no permanent provision shall be included in any temporary Ordinance.

15.—(1) Save as hereinafter mentioned, the Governor shall not, without having previously obtained instructions through a Secretary of State, assent to any Bill within any of the following classes, unless such Bill contain a clause suspending the operation thereof until the signification in the Colony of Our pleasure thereon, that is to say:

(1) Any Bill for the divorce of married persons:

(2) Any Bill whereby any grant of land or money, or other donation or gratuity, may be made to himself:

(3) Any Bill affecting the currency of the Colony, or relating to the issue of Bank Notes:

(4) Any Bill establishing any Banking Association, or amending or altering the constitution, powers, or privileges of any Banking Association:

(5) Any Bill imposing differential duties:

(6) Any Bill the provisions of which shall appear inconsistent with obligations imposed upon Us by Treaty:

(7) Any Bill interfering with the discipline or control of Our Forces by land or sea or air:

(8) Any Bill relating to questions of defence, or any matter affecting naval, military, or air forces or volunteer corps or the control of aerial navigation or aircraft or the transport or means of communication of naval, military, or air forces:

(9) Any Bill of an extraordinary nature and importance whereby Our Prerogative, or the rights and property of Our subjects not residing in the Colony, or the trade, transport or communications of any part of Our dominions, may be prejudiced:

(10) Any Bill containing any provisions prohibiting regulating or licensing the import or export of goods, or imposing or varying any customs, excise or export duty, tariff, levy or cess, or allowing any discount rebate or drawback from any such duty, tariff, levy or cess, or containing any other provision (whether of a similar nature to the foregoing or not), whereby the trade or commerce of the Malayan Union might be prejudicially affected, unless the Governor of the Malayan Union, having previously been informed of the provision shall have signified that he does not object thereto:

(11) Any Bill whereby persons of any racial, religious or other community are made liable to any disabilities or restrictions to which persons of other such communities are not also subjected or made liable, or are granted advantages not extended to persons of other such communities:

===== Page 113 =====
(12) Any Bill the principle of which has evoked serious opposition by any racial, religious, or other community and which in the opinion of the Governor is likely to involve oppression or unfairness to any such community:

(13) Any Bill containing provisions to which Our assent has been once refused, or which have been disallowed by Us:

Provided that the Governor may assent in Our name to any Bill falling within any of the classes described in this sub-clause (except a Bill falling within any class mentioned in paragraph (6) or (10) of this sub-clause) if he shall have satisfied himself that an urgent necessity exists requiring that such Bill be brought into immediate operation; but, in any such case, he shall, at the earliest opportunity, transmit to Us any Bill to which he shall have assented, together with his reasons for so assenting.

(2) The Governor shall not, without previously having obtained instructions from a Secretary of State, permit to be introduced or put into operation by subordinate legislation or executive action any such provision as is mentioned in paragraph (10) of sub-clause (1) of this clause unless the Governor of the Malayan Union, having previously been informed of the provision, shall have signified that he does not object thereto.

Private Bills.

16.—(1) Every Bill (not being a Government measure) intended to affect or benefit some particular person, association, or corporate body, shall contain a clause saving the right of Us, Our Heirs and Successors, all bodies politic and corporate, and all others, except such as are mentioned in the Bill and those claiming by, from or under them.

(2) No such Bill shall be introduced into the Legislative Council until due notice has been given by not less than three successive publications of the Bill in the Gazette of the Colony, and the Governor shall not assent thereto in Our Name unless it has been so published. A certificate under the hand of the Governor signifying that such publication has been made shall be transmitted to Us with the Bill or Ordinance.

Laws made by the Governor.

17. The provision of Clauses 15 and 16 shall apply (mutatis mutandis) to the making of any law by the Governor as they apply to a Bill requiring the assent of the Governor.

Ordinances to be sent through Secretary of State.

18. When any Ordinance shall have been enacted, the Governor shall forthwith transmit to Us, through a Secretary of State, for the signification of Our pleasure, a transcript in duplicate of the Ordinance duly authenticated under the Public Seal of the Colony and by his own signature, together with an explanation of the reasons and occasion for the enactment of the Ordinance.

Ordinances to be published.

19. As soon as practicable after the commencement of each year, the Governor shall cause a complete collection of all Ordinances enacted during the preceding year to be published for general information.

Appointments to be during pleasure.

20. Every appointment by the Governor of any person to any Office or employment shall, unless otherwise provided by law, be expressed to be during pleasure only.

Regulations of power of pardon in capital cases.

21.—(1) Whenever any offender shall have been condemned by sentence of any civil Court in the Colony to suffer death, the Governor shall call upon the Judge who presided at the trial to make to him a written report of the case of such offender, and shall cause such report to be taken into consideration at a meeting of the Executive Council, and

===== Page 114 =====
He may cause the said Judge to be specially summoned to attend at such meeting and to produce his notes thereat. The Governor shall not pardon or reprieve any such offender unless it shall appear to him expedient so to do, upon receiving the advice of the Executive Council thereon; but in all such cases he is to decide either to extend or to withhold a pardon or reprieve, according to his own deliberate judgment, whether the Members of the Executive Council concur therein or otherwise, entering nevertheless, in the Minutes of the Executive Council, his reasons at length, in case he should decide any such question in opposition to the judgment of the majority of the Members thereof.

(2) Until the Executive Council shall be constituted, references in this clause to the Executive Council shall be construed as references to the Advisory Council.

22. The Governor shall forward to Us, each year, through a Secretary of State, the annual book of returns commonly called the Blue Book, relating to Revenue and Expenditure, Public Works, Legislation, Civil Establishments, Pensions, Population, Schools, Course of Exchange, Imports and Exports, Agricultural Produce, Manufactures, and other matters in the said Blue Book more particularly specified with reference to the state and condition of the Colony.

23. Except in circumstances in which he is not regarded as absent from the Colony for the purposes of the Order in Council, the Governor shall not quit the Colony without having first obtained leave from Us for so doing through a Secretary of State.

24.—(1) In these Our Instructions, unless inconsistent with the context:

“the appointed day” has the same meaning as in the Order in Council;

“the Executive Council”, “the Legislative Council” and “the Advisory Council” mean the Executive Council, the Legislative Council and the Advisory Council respectively of the Colony of Singapore constituted under and by virtue of the Order in Council;

“the Governor” includes every person for the time being administering the Government of the Colony; and “Secretary of State” means one of Our Principal Secretaries of State.

(2) For the purposes of these Our Instructions, a person shall not be deemed to hold an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony by reason only that he is in receipt of a pension or other like allowance in respect of service under the Crown.

If it shall be declared by any law for the time being in force in the Colony that an office shall not be an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony for all or any of the purposes of these Our Instructions, these Instructions shall have effect accordingly as if such law were enacted therein.

Given at Our Court at Saint James’s, this 27th day of March, 1946, in the Tenth year of Our Reign.

Printed by His Majesty’s Stationery Office Press, Drury Lane, W.C.2.

===== Page 115 =====
in County

If it is not possible to obtain the necessary information, please contact the County Office directly.

===== Page 116 =====
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE
The 27th day of March, 1946

Present
THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL.

WHEREAS by the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890, it was, amongst other things, enacted that it should be lawful for His Majesty the King to hold, exercise and enjoy any jurisdiction which His Majesty then had or might at any time thereafter have within a foreign country in the same and as ample a manner as if His Majesty had acquired that jurisdiction by the cession or conquest of territory:

AND WHEREAS His Majesty has full power and jurisdiction within the Malay States of Johore, Kedah, Kelantan, Negri Sembilan, Pahang, Perak, Perlis, Selangor and Trengganu (hereinafter referred to together as "the Malay States"):

AND WHEREAS, by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Act, 1946 (hereinafter called "the Act of 1946") it is, amongst other things, enacted that on such day as His Majesty may by Order in Council appoint (in that Act and in this Order referred to as "the appointed day") the Straits Settlements Act, 1866, shall be repealed and the Straits Settlements, that is to say the settlements and dependencies mentioned in the Schedule to the Act of 1946 (which comprise, among other settlements and dependencies, the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang (including province Wellesley) and the dependencies of the said settlements) shall cease to be a single colony and that on and after the appointed day each of the said settlements and dependencies shall be divided into such territories as His Majesty may by Order in Council direct and that those territories shall be governed either singly or in conjunction with such other territories (whether falling within the Schedule to the Act of 1946 or not) as may be specified in such Order and that such Order in Council may contain such other and consequential provisions as are contained in this Order:

AND WHEREAS by the Act of 1946 it is further enacted that the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945, shall apply in relation to each of the territories into which the said Settlements and dependencies are divided by Order under this Act as if it were a British settlement as so defined:

AND WHEREAS by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Order in Council, 1946, it is provided that the appointed day shall be the first day of April, 1946:

AND WHEREAS it is expedient to make provision for the administration, on and after the appointed day, of the Malay States in conjunction with the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang and the dependencies of the said Settlements:

===== Page 117 =====
NOW THEREFORE, His Majesty, by virtue and in exercise of the powers by the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890, and by the Act of 1946 and the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945, or otherwise in His Majesty vested, is pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council to order, and it is hereby ordered, as follows:

PART I.

PRELIMINARY.

1.—(1) This Order may be cited as the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946, and, except as to section 13 and Parts IV, V, VI, VII and VIII, shall come into operation on the appointed day.

(2) Section 13 and Parts IV, V, VI, VII and VIII of this Order shall come into operation on such day, or days respectively, within a period of six months from the appointed day, as may be fixed by the Governor by proclamation in the Gazette and the Governor may fix different days for different purposes and different provisions of that section and those Parts:

Provided that the said period of six months may be extended by the Governor, by Proclamation in the Gazette, for such further period as may be approved by a Secretary of State.

2.—(1) In this Order, unless the context otherwise requires—

“the Chief Justice” means the Chief Justice of the Union;

“the existing laws” means the common law, doctrines of equity and all Acts of Parliament, Orders in Council, Enactments of the Legislature of the Federated Malay States, Enactments of the Legislature of any Malay State, Ordinances of the Legislature of the Colony of the Straits Settlements, Proclamations issued by the High Commissioner of the Malay States or by the Ruler of any of the Malay States, or by the Governor of the Straits Settlements or by, or under the authority of, the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia (other than the Proclamations establishing the British Military Administration and delegating powers thereunder) and all Rules, Regulations and By-laws made thereunder and all other enactments and instruments having the force of law in the Union or in any part thereof immediately prior to the appointed day, whether the same were administered by the British Military Administration or not;

“the Gazette” means the official Gazette of the Union;

“the Governor” means the Governor and Commander-in-Chief for the time being of the Union and includes any officer for the time being administering the Government thereof, and, to the extent that a Deputy to the Governor is authorised to act, that Deputy;

“the Governor in Council” means the Governor acting after consultation with, but not necessarily in accordance with the advice of, the Executive Council of the Union nor necessarily in such Council assembled; and, until Section 13 of this Order is in operation, means the Governor;

“Malayan Union citizen” means a citizen of the Union within the meaning of any Order in Council or other enactment providing for Malayan Union Citizenship;

“meeting” means any sitting or sittings of a Council constituted under this Order commencing when the Council first meets after being

===== Page 118 =====
summoned at any time and terminating when the Council is adjourned sine die or at the conclusion of a session without adjournment;

“prescribed” means prescribed by any law made under this Order or by regulation made by the Governor under section 96;

“property” includes all property movable or immovable and all estates, interests, easements and rights, whether equitable or legal, in, to or out of property, and things in action and rights to revenue, taxes, duties and other dues; and “vested” in relation to property includes rights to property which are future or contingent and rights in reversion and remainder;

“the Public Seal” means the public seal of the Union and includes the official stamp mentioned in section 9 of this Order;

“session” means the sittings of any Council constituted under this Order commencing when the Council first meets after being so constituted, or after its prorogation or dissolution at any time, and terminating when the Council is prorogued or is dissolved without having been prorogued;

“the settlements” means the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang;

“the Settlement of Malacca” means the Town and Fort and Province of Malacca and all islands and places heretofore known or administered as part of the Settlement of Malacca, and the territorial waters adjacent thereto;

“the settlement of Penang” means Georgetown and the Island of Penang (or Prince of Wales’ Island) Province Wellesley and all islands and places heretofore known or administered as part of the Settlement of Penang, and the territorial waters adjacent thereto;

“Sultan” includes the Raja of Perlis and the Yang di peruan Besar of Negri Sembilan, and, during a Regency in any of the Malay States, means the Regent, or if there be a Council of Regency, the Member of that Council to whom is assigned the function in connection with which the term is used;

“the Supreme Court” means the Supreme Court of the Union;

“the Union” means the Malayan Union constituted by section 3 of this Order.

(2) For the purposes of this Order, when reference is made to a Sultan of any of the Malay States or to any public officer by the term designating his office, such reference means the Sultan for the time being of the State concerned, or the officer for the time being lawfully discharging the functions of that office, as the case may be.

(3) For the purposes of this Order, a person shall not be deemed to hold an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union by reason only that he is in receipt of a pension or other like allowance in respect of service under the Crown.

If it shall be declared by any law for the time being in force in the Union that an office shall not be an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union for all or any of the purposes of this Order, this Order shall have effect accordingly as if that law were enacted herein.

(4) The Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply for the interpretation of this Order as it applies for the interpretation of an Act of Parliament.

===== Page 119 =====
3. There shall be established a Union comprising the Malay States and the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang, to be governed and administered together and to be known as the Malayan Union.

PART II.

THE GOVERNOR AND EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.

Governor.

4. There shall be a Governor and Commander-in-Chief (hereinafter called "the Governor") in and over the Union, and appointments to the said office shall be made by Commission under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet.

Powers of Governor.

5. The Governor is hereby empowered and commanded to do all things that belong to his said office in accordance with this Order and such Commission as may be issued to him under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet and according to such Instructions as may from time to time be given to him under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet, or through a Secretary of State, and such Orders in Council and other laws as may from time to time be in force in the Union.

Publication of Governor's Commission and taking of oaths.

6. Every person appointed to fill the office of Governor shall, before entering on any of the duties of his office, cause the Commission appointing him to be Governor to be read and published at the seat of Government, in the presence of the Chief Justice or, in his absence, of some other Judge of the Supreme Court, and (if section 13 of this Order is in force) of such Members of the Executive Council of the Union as can conveniently attend; and shall take before them the Oath of Allegiance and the Oath for the due execution of the office of Governor in the forms set out in the First Schedule to this Order, which Oaths the Chief Justice or such other Judge as aforesaid shall administer.

Succession to Government.

7. (1) Whenever the office of Governor becomes vacant, or the Governor is absent from the Union, or the Governor is from any cause prevented from, or incapable of, performing the duties of his office, then such person as His Majesty may appoint under His Sign Manual and Signet or if there is no such person in the Union so appointed and capable of discharging the duties of administration, the senior Member of the Executive Council then in the Union and so capable, shall during His Majesty's pleasure, administer the Government of the Union, first taking, in manner in this Order prescribed, the oaths directed by this Order to be taken by the Governor. Thereupon such person or Member shall, subject, if he is so appointed as aforesaid, to the terms of his appointment, do, during His Majesty's pleasure, all things that belong to the Office of Governor as provided in this Order:

Provided that the Governor or any other person or Member as aforesaid shall not be regarded as absent from the Union or prevented from or incapable of performing the duties of his office for the purposes of this Order during his passage from one part of the Union to another or during a visit to the Colony of Singapore or when there is a subsisting appointment of a Deputy under the next succeeding section of this Order.

(2) Any such person as aforesaid shall not continue to administer the Government after the Governor or some other person having a prior right to administer the same has notified him that he is about to assume or resume the administration.

===== Page 120 =====
8. (1) Whenever the Governor has occasion to be absent from the seat of Government but not from the Union or to be absent from the Union for a period which he has reason to believe will be of short duration, or whenever by reason of illness which he has reason to believe will be of short duration he considers it desirable so to do, he may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint any person in the Union to be his Deputy during such absence or illness, and in that capacity to exercise and perform for and on behalf of the Governor during such absence or illness all such functions of the Governor as shall be specified in such Instrument.

(2) By the appointment of a Deputy as aforesaid the power and authority of the Governor shall not be abridged, altered, or in any way affected otherwise than as His Majesty may at any time hereafter think proper to direct, and every such Deputy shall conform to and observe all such instructions as the Governor shall from time to time address to him for his guidance.

(3) Any appointment under this section may at any time be revoked by the Governor or by a Secretary of State and, in case of absence as aforesaid, shall cease and determine upon the return of the Governor to the seat of Government or to the Union, as the case may be.

9. The Governor shall keep and use the Public Seal of the Union for sealing all things whatsoever that shall pass the said Seal. Until a Public Seal shall be provided for the Union, an official stamp bearing the inscription "Malayan Union. Public Seal" may be used as the Public Seal.

10. Subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force in the Union and of any Instructions from time to time given to the Governor under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, the Governor, in His Majesty's name and on His Majesty's behalf, may make and execute, under the Public Seal, grants and dispositions of any lands within the Union which may be lawfully granted or disposed of by His Majesty.

11. Subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force in the Union and to any Instructions from time to time given to him by His Majesty through a Secretary of State, the Governor for cause shown to his satisfaction, may dismiss or suspend from the exercise of his office any person holding any public office within the Union, or may take such other disciplinary action as may seem to him desirable.

12. When any offence has been committed for which the offender may be tried within the Union, the Governor may, as he shall see occasion, in His Majesty's name and on His Majesty's behalf, grant a pardon to any accomplice in such offence who shall give such information as shall lead to the conviction of the principal offender, or any one of such offenders if more than one; and further may grant to any offender convicted of any such offence in any Court within the Union, a pardon, either free or subject to lawful conditions, or any respite, either indefinite or for such period as the Governor may think fit, of the execution of any sentence passed on such offender, and may remit the whole or any part of such sentence or of any penalties or forfeitures otherwise due to His Majesty.

13. There shall be an Executive Council for the Union and the said Council shall consist of such persons as His Majesty shall direct by

===== Page 121 =====
Instructions under His Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, and all such persons shall hold their places in the Executive Council during His Majesty’s pleasure and, subject thereto, for such period and upon such conditions as may be specified in any such Instructions.

PART III.

COURTS.

14.—(1) There shall be in and for the Union a Court of unlimited civil and criminal jurisdiction to be called the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court shall be a Court of Record and may consist of a High Court and a Court of Appeal.

(2) There shall be a Chief Justice appointed by His Majesty by Letters Patent under the Great Seal of the Realm, or by the Governor by Letters Patent under the Public Seal in accordance with such instructions as he may receive from His Majesty through a Secretary of State, and as many Judges of the Supreme Court, appointed similarly or in manner prescribed, as may from time to time be required. The Chief Justice and Judges of the Supreme Court shall hold office during His Majesty’s pleasure.

(3) The constitution, powers and procedure of the Supreme Court and provisions relating to appeals therefrom to His Majesty in Council and provisions relating to the qualifications, order of precedence, duties and powers of Judges, and appointment of temporary Judges, may, subject to the provisions of this Order, be prescribed by laws made under this Order.

15.—(1) Courts subordinate to the Supreme Court and Courts of special jurisdiction may be constituted by laws made under this Order.

(2) Provision may be made by such laws for the hearing and determining of appeals from any such Court by the Supreme Court or otherwise.

PART IV.

LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.

16.—(1) There shall be a Legislative Council in and for the Union constituted in accordance with the provisions of this Order.

(2) The Council shall consist of the Governor as President, three ex officio Members, and such Official Members, not exceeding eighteen and such Unofficial Members, not exceeding twenty-one, as His Majesty shall direct by Instructions under His Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State.

17. The ex officio Members shall be the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General and the Financial Secretary.

18. The Official Members shall be persons holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, and shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of His Majesty’s instructions through a Secretary of State.

19. The Unofficial Members shall be Malayan Union citizens of the age of twenty-one years or upwards not holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, who, the Governor is satisfied, are able

===== Page 122 =====
To speak and (unless incapacitated by blindness or other physical cause) to read and write the English language with a degree of proficiency sufficient to enable them to take an active part in the proceedings of the Council. Unofficial Members shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of His Majesty's Instructions through a Secretary of State:

Provided that the Governor may, for cause shown to his satisfaction, appoint a British subject who is not a Malayan Union citizen to be an Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council.

20. No person shall be capable of being appointed an Official or Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council or, having been appointed, shall sit and vote therein, who at the time of appointment—

(1) is a person found or declared to be of unsound mind under any law in force in the Union; or

(2) has, in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection, been sentenced to death or to imprisonment (by whatever name called) for a term exceeding six months and has not either suffered the punishment to which he was sentenced or such other punishment as may by competent authority have been substituted therefor or received a free pardon; or

(3) is an undischarged bankrupt; or

(4) is a party to, or a member of a firm or a director or manager of a company which is a party to, any subsisting contract with the Government of the Union, for or on account of the public service, or is otherwise to his knowledge interested in any such contract, and shall not have disclosed to the Governor the nature of such contract and his interest, or the interest of any such firm or company, therein.

21.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, every Official Member or Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council shall hold his seat in the Legislative Council during His Majesty's pleasure and, subject thereto, shall cease to be a Member at the end of three years from the date of the Instrument by which he is appointed, or at such earlier date as may be provided by such Instrument, or previously if his seat shall become vacant under the provisions of this Order.

(2) If a person is appointed a Temporary Member of the Legislative Council in accordance with the provisions of Section 22 of this Order and such appointment is immediately followed by his definitive appointment as a Member, the said period of three years shall be reckoned from the date of his appointment as a Temporary Member.

(3) The seat of a Member of the Legislative Council (other than an ex officio Member) shall become vacant—

(a) upon his death; or

(b) if he shall, without the leave of the Governor, be absent from two consecutive meetings of the Council; or

(c) if he shall cease to be a Malayan Union citizen, or, if appointed under the proviso to section 19, a British subject, or shall take any oath, or make any declaration or acknowledgment of allegiance, obedience or adherence to any foreign Power or State; or shall do, concur in or adopt any act done with the intention that he shall become a subject or citizen of any foreign Power or State; or

===== Page 123 =====
(d) If he shall be declared a bankrupt under any law in force in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection; or

(e) If in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection, he shall be sentenced to death, or imprisonment, by whatever name called, for a term exceeding six months; or

(f) If he shall be found or declared to be of unsound mind under any law in force in the Union; or

(g) If he shall, by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor, resign his seat in the Council; or

(h) If, being an Official Member, he shall cease to hold office of emolument under the Crown in the Union; or

(i) If, being an Unofficial Member, he shall be appointed permanently to any such office; or

(j) If, being an Unofficial Member, he shall, without the approval of the Governor, become a party to, or if any firm in which he is a partner, or any company of which he is a director or manager, shall become a party to, or if he shall be otherwise interested in, any contract with the Government of the Union for or on account of the public service and shall not, before the making of the contract, have disclosed to the Governor the nature of such contract and his interest or the interest of any such firm or company therein.

(4) If an Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council shall be appointed temporarily to any office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, or shall be appointed to act in any such office, he shall not sit or vote in the Legislative Council so long as he continues to hold or to act in that office.

(5) Any person vacating a seat as a Member of the Legislative Council may, if qualified, be again appointed as a Member from time to time.

(6) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Official Member or Unofficial Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council, and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared, in manner aforesaid, to be again capable of discharging his said functions.

(7) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, suspend any Official Member or Unofficial Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the Council. Every such suspension shall forthwith be reported by the Governor to His Majesty through a Secretary of State, and shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal or by His Majesty through a Secretary of State, or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the Legislative Council.

(8) All questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain an Official or Unofficial Member shall be referred to and decided by the Governor in Council, whose decision shall be final and shall not be called in question in any Court in the Union.

22.—(1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Legislative Council as ex officio Members, or Official Members or Unofficial Members, by reason of the fact that—

(a) An ex officio Member is administering the Government of the Union; or

===== Page 124 =====
(b) one person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the three officers specified in section 17 of this Order; or

(c) no person is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or

(d) an Official Member is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or

(e) the seat of an Official or Unofficial Member is vacant for any cause other than a dissolution of the Council; or

(f) an Official or Unofficial Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in this Order, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or

(g) an Official or Unofficial Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or

(h) a Member is absent from the Union; or

(i) an Unofficial Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of his having been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union or to act in any such office;

the Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint a person to be a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) If the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Official Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as an Official Member; and if the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Unofficial Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as an Unofficial Member.

(3) Every person appointed to be a Temporary Member under this section shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Official Members, an Official Member;

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Unofficial Members, an Unofficial Member;

and, subject to the provisions of this section, the provisions of section 21 of this Order shall apply accordingly:

Provided that, in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed shall not be regarded as an Official Member in computing the number of such Members for the purposes of sub-section (2) of section 16 of this Order.

(4) The Governor shall forthwith report every such temporary appointment to His Majesty through a Secretary of State. Any such appointment may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be disallowed by His Majesty through a Secretary of State or revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment under this section shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of disallowance by His Majesty or of revocation by the Governor, or on super-session of the appointment by the definitive appointment of a person to fill the vacancy, or when the vacancy shall otherwise cease to exist.

===== Page 125 =====
23. The Governor may summon to any meeting of the Legislative Council any person holding public office under the Crown in the Union, notwithstanding that such person may not be a Member of the Council, when, in the opinion of the Governor, the business before the Council renders the presence of such person desirable. Any person so summoned shall be entitled to take part in the proceedings of the Council relating to the business in respect of which he is summoned as if he were a Member of the Council, except that he shall not have the right to vote in the Council.

Governor to preside.

24. The Governor, if present, shall preside at meetings of the Council, and, in his absence, such Member as the Governor may in writing appoint or, in the absence of such Member, or if no Member be so appointed, the senior Member of Council actually present shall preside.

Quorum.

25. No business except that of adjournment shall be transacted by the Council if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than one quarter of the Members present besides the Governor or other Member presiding.

Precedence of Members.

26. After the Governor, the Members of the Council shall take precedence as His Majesty may specially assign or, if precedence be not so assigned, as follows:

First, the ex officio Members in the order in which they are mentioned in section 17 of this Order;

Secondly, the Official Members appointed under section 18 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments as such, or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Thirdly, Official Members temporarily appointed under section 22 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Fourthly, the Unofficial Members appointed under section 19 of this Order according to the priority of their appointments as such, or if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Fifthly, the Unofficial Members temporarily appointed under section 22 of this Order according to the priority of their appointments or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor:

Provided that when a Member is re-appointed to fill a vacancy caused by the termination of his own term of office the date from which he has been continuously a Member of the Council (any interval between such termination and re-appointment being disregarded) shall be regarded as the date of his appointment for the purposes of this section.

PART V.

LEGISLATION AND PROCEDURE IN LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.

Power to make laws.

27. Subject to the provisions of this Order, it shall be lawful for the Governor, with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council, to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Union.

Voting.

28. Save as otherwise provided in this Order, all questions proposed for decision in the Council shall be determined by a majority of the

===== Page 126 =====
Votes of the Members present and voting. The Governor shall not have an original vote, but, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, he shall have a casting vote. In the absence of the Governor, the Member presiding shall have an original vote and also, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, a casting vote.

29.—(1) If the Governor shall consider that it is expedient in the interests of public order, public faith or good government that any Bill introduced, or any motion, proposed for decision in the Council shall have effect, then if the Council fail to pass such a Bill or motion, within such time and in such form as the Governor may think reasonable and expedient, the Governor, at any time in his discretion, may, notwithstanding any provisions of this Order or of any Standing Rules or Orders of the Council, declare that such Bill or motion shall have effect as if it had been passed by the Council, either in the form in which it was so introduced or proposed or with such amendments as the Governor shall think fit which have been moved or proposed in the Council or in any Committee thereof; and thereupon the said Bill or motion shall have effect as if it had been so passed, and, in the case of any such Bill, the provisions of this Order relating to assent to Bills and disallowance of laws shall apply accordingly.

(2) In this section the expressions "public order, public faith or good government" shall, without prejudice to their generality, include the following:

(a) the responsibility of the Union as a component part of the British Empire including foreign relations and relations with other parts of the British Empire;

(b) all questions relating to defence, including provision, construction, maintenance and use of defence works, areas and communications;

(c) subjects upon which, in the opinion of the Governor or of a Secretary of State, it is necessary to secure uniformity in legislation between the Union and the Colony of Singapore; and

(d) all matters pertaining to the creation or abolition of any public office and to the appointment, salary or other conditions of service of any public officer or officers.

(3) The Governor shall forthwith report to a Secretary of State every case in which he shall make any such declaration as is mentioned in sub-section (1) of this section and the reason therefor.

(4) If any Member of the Legislative Council objects to any declaration made under this section, he may, within seven days of the making thereof, submit to the Governor a statement in writing of his reasons for so objecting, and a copy of such statement shall, if furnished by such Member, be forwarded by the Governor as soon as practicable to a Secretary of State.

(5) Any such declaration other than a declaration relating to a Bill, may be revoked by a Secretary of State, and the Governor shall notify such revocation in the Gazette; and from the date of such notification any motion which shall have had effect by virtue of the declaration revoked shall cease to have effect, and the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 38 of the Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply to such revocation as they apply to the repeal of an Act of Parliament.

===== Page 127 =====
30.—(1) No Bill shall become a law until either the Governor shall assent thereto in His Majesty’s name and on His Majesty’s behalf, and shall sign the same in token of assent, or His Majesty shall give his assent thereto through a Secretary of State.

(2) When a Bill is presented to the Governor for his assent, he shall, according to his discretion, but subject to the provisions of this Order and of any Instructions addressed to him under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, declare that he assents or refuses to assent thereto, or that he reserves the Bill for the signification of His Majesty’s pleasure.

(3) A law assented to by the Governor shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the date of such publication, or, if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment (including any enactment in force at the commencement of this Order) that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

(4) A Bill reserved for the signification of His Majesty’s pleasure shall become a law so soon as His Majesty shall have given His assent thereto, through a Secretary of State, and the Governor shall have signified such assent by Proclamation in the Gazette. Every such law shall come into operation on the date of such Proclamation or, if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment (including any enactment in force at the commencement of this Order) that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

31.—(1) Any law to which the Governor shall have given his assent may be disallowed by His Majesty through a Secretary of State.

(2) Whenever any law has been disallowed by His Majesty, the Governor shall cause notice of such disallowance to be published in the Gazette.

(3) Every law so disallowed shall cease to have effect as soon as notice of such disallowance shall be published as aforesaid. Thereafter any enactment repealed or amended by such law shall have effect as if such law had not been made, but, save as aforesaid, the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 38 of the Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply to such disallowance as they apply to the repeal of an Act of Parliament.

32. Subject to the provisions of this Order, the Governor and the Legislative Council shall, in the transaction of business and the passing of laws, conform as nearly as may be to the directions contained in any Instructions under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet which may from time to time be addressed to the Governor in that behalf.

33. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of such Instructions as aforesaid, the Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its own proceedings and the conduct of business and for the passing, intitulating and numbering of Bills, and for the presentation thereof to the Governor for his assent, but no such Rules or Orders shall have effect unless and until they have been approved by the Governor.

34. The official language of the Council shall be English.

35. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council, any Member may introduce any Bill or

===== Page 128 =====
Propose any motion for debate in, or may present any petition to, the Council, and the same shall be debated and disposed of according to the Standing Rules and Orders:

Provided that, except with the recommendation or consent of the Governor signified thereto, the Council shall not proceed upon any Bill, amendment, motion or petition, which, in the opinion of the Governor or of the presiding Member, would—

(a) dispose of, or charge any public revenue or public funds of the Union, or revoke or alter any disposition thereof or charge thereon, or impose, alter, or repeal any rate, tax or duty; or

(b) suspend the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council or any of them.

36.—(1) The sessions of the Legislative Council shall be held at such times and places as the Governor shall from time to time by Proclamation appoint.

(2) There shall be a session of the Council once at least in every year, so that a period of twelve months shall not intervene between the last sitting in one Session and the first sitting in the next Session.

37. The Governor may at any time, by Proclamation, prorogue the Legislative Council.

PART VI.

THE COUNCIL OF SULTANS.

38. There shall be established for the Union a Council to be called the Council of Sultans.

39.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order the Council of Sultans shall consist of the Governor as President and the following Members:

(1) His Highness the Sultan of Johore;
(2) His Highness the Sultan of Pahang;
(3) His Highness the Yang di per Tuan Besar of Negri Sembilan;
(4) His Highness the Sultan of Perak;
(5) His Highness the Sultan of Selangor;
(6) His Highness the Sultan of Kedah;
(7) His Highness the Raja of Perlis;
(8) His Highness the Sultan of Kelantan;
(9) His Highness the Sultan of Trengganu;
(10) The Chief Secretary;
(11) The Attorney-General; and
(12) The Financial Secretary.

(2) During a Regency in any of the Malay States, the Regent or, if there be a Council of Regency, such Member of that Council as the Council of Regency may assign, shall be a Member of the Council of Sultans in the place of the Sultan of the State.

40.—(1) The functions of the Council of Sultans shall be—

(a) to consider legislation, relating solely to matters of Muhammadan religion, which the Sultan's Advisory Council in any State has approved for enactment; and

===== Page 129 =====
(b) To advise the Governor on any matter which he may refer to the Council for discussion, and on any matter which any Sultan may propose for discussion.

(2) Subject as hereinafter provided, every Bill relating solely to matters of Muhammadan religion approved by a Sultan’s Advisory Council in any State under the provisions of section 75 of this Order, shall, after submission to the Council of Sultans, be referred by that Council to a Committee (in this section called "the Muhammadan Legislation Committee") consisting of the Muhammadan Members of the Council of Sultans under the chairmanship of the senior Sultan present. The Muhammadan Legislation Committee shall consider the Bill and shall report approval or disapproval thereof to the Council of Sultans, and, in case of disapproval, shall record the grounds of disapproval. Any such Bill which is approved by the Muhammadan Legislation Committee shall be approved by the Council of Sultans:

Provided that no Bill shall be received by the Council of Sultans or be referred to, or considered by the Muhammadan Legislation Committee, unless it be accompanied by a certificate from the Attorney-General certifying that, in his opinion, the Bill complies with sub-section (1) of section 75 of this Order, and does not conflict with any law in force in the State concerned other than a law, relating solely to matters of Muhammadan religion, which is to be repealed or modified by the Bill.

(3) A Bill approved by the Council of Sultans shall be returned by the Clerk of that Council to the Clerk of the Sultan’s Advisory Council concerned with an intimation of such approval. Thereafter, the Sultan of the State concerned may assent thereto, and, upon such assent, the law shall come into operation as provided in section 75 of this Order.

(4) Any Bill disapproved by the Muhammadan Legislation Committee shall be disapproved by the Council of Sultans and shall be returned by the Clerk of that Council to the Clerk of the Sultan’s Advisory Council concerned, together with the grounds of disapproval. Any Bill so returned may be altered by the Sultan’s Advisory Council concerned and submitted again for consideration by the Council of Sultans.

(5) In this section the expression "senior Sultan" means the Sultan having precedence under section 42 of this Order.

Summoning of persons not Members.

41. The Governor may summon to any meeting of the Council of Sultans any person holding public office under the Crown in the Union, notwithstanding that such person may not be a member of the Council, when, in the opinion of the Governor, the business before the Council renders the presence of such person desirable. Any person so summoned shall not have the right to vote in the Council.

Precedence.

42. After the Governor the Members of the Council of Sultans shall take precedence among themselves as follows—
First, the Sultans in order according to the dates of their recognition by His Majesty as Sultans of their respective States;
Second, Regents in order according to the dates of their appointments as Regents; and
Third, the Chief Secretary, the Attorney-General and the Financial Secretary in that order.

Quorum.

43. No business except that of adjournment shall be transacted by the Council if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than eight Members present in addition to the Governor.

===== Page 130 =====
44. The official languages of the Council of Sultans shall be Malay and English.

45. Subject to the provisions of this Order, the Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its proceedings and the dispatch of business but no such Standing Rules and Orders shall have effect until they have been approved by the Governor.

46.—(1) The Sessions of the Council of Sultans shall be held at such times and places as the Governor shall from time to time, by Proclamation, appoint.

(2) There shall be a session of the Council at least twice in every year.

PART VII.

STATE AND SETTLEMENT COUNCILS.

47. There shall be established a State Council for each of the Malay States, and a Settlement Council for each of the Settlements.

48. Each State Council and Settlement Council shall consist of the Resident Commissioner of the State or Settlement as Chairman and such ex officio Members, Nominated Official Members, Nominated Unofficial Members and Elected Members as may be prescribed.

49.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, it shall be lawful for a State Council or Settlement Council to make laws on any subject—
(a) which is declared by Order of the Governor in Council to be of a purely local nature in the State or Settlement; or
(b) in respect to which the Legislative Council shall have delegated powers of legislation to the State Council or Settlement Council concerned.

(2) Any law passed by a State Council or Settlement Council may, at any time, be repealed or altered by the Legislature of the Union, and shall, without any formal repeal, be void so far as it is repugnant to any law passed by such Legislature or to any proclamation, rule, regulation, by-law or order lawfully made under any such law.

(3) A State Council or Settlement Council shall exercise such powers of local administration as may from time to time be prescribed or allocated to it by the Governor in Council.

50. The Nominated Official Members of any State Council or Settlement Council shall be persons holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, and the Nominated Unofficial Members shall be persons not holding such office. Nominated Members shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

51. The Elected Members shall be persons not holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union and shall be elected in the manner prescribed.

===== Page 131 =====
Summoning of persons other than Members.

52. The Resident Commissioner may summon to any meeting of a State or Settlement Council any person, notwithstanding that such person may not be a Member of the Council, when, in the opinion of the Resident Commissioner, the business before the Council renders the presence of such person desirable. Any person so summoned shall be entitled to take part in the proceedings of the Council relating to the business in respect of which he is summoned as if he were a member of the Council, except that he shall not have the right to vote in the Council.

Tenure of office of Nominated Members.

53.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, a person appointed a Nominated Member shall vacate his seat at the expiration of three years from the date of his appointment, or on the dissolution of the Council, whichever is earlier, but may, if qualified, be again appointed from time to time.

(2) If any person is appointed a Temporary Member of a State Council or Settlement Council in accordance with the provisions of Section 59 of this Order and such appointment is immediately followed by his definitive appointment as a Nominated Member, the said period of three years shall be reckoned from the date of his appointment as a Temporary Member.

Tenure of Office of Elected Members.

54. Subject to the provisions of this Order, a person elected as an Elected Member shall vacate his seat at the expiration of three years from the date of his election or on dissolution of the Council, whichever is earlier, but may, if qualified, be again elected from time to time.

Qualifications for elected and nominated membership.

55. Subject to the provisions of this Order any person who is of the age of twenty-one years or upwards and who, the Governor is satisfied, is able to speak and (unless incapacitated by blindness or other physical cause) to read and write the English, or the Malay, language with a degree of proficiency sufficient to enable him to take an active part in the proceedings of the Council and who, in the case of a State Council, is a Malayan Union citizen, or, in the case of a Settlement Council, is a Malayan Union citizen or a British subject, shall be qualified to be a Nominated or an Elected Member of a State Council or Settlement Council, as the case may be, and no other person shall be qualified to be appointed or elected thereto, or, having been so appointed, or elected, shall sit or vote in such Council.

Disqualification for Membership.

56.—(1) A person shall be disqualified for nominated membership of any State Council or Settlement Council for any reason which would cause disqualification for Membership of the Legislative Council under the provisions of section 20 of this Order.

Provided that sub-section (4) of section 20 shall have effect for the purpose of this sub-section as if the words "or with the Government of any State or Settlement within the Union," had been inserted before the words "for or on account of the public service," where those words appear in that sub-section.

(2) A person shall be disqualified for Elected Membership of a State Council or Settlement Council for any reason which would cause disqualification for Membership of the Legislative Council under paragraph (1), (2) or (3) of section 20 of this Order, or

(a) if, being a party to, or a member of a firm or director or manager of a company which is a party to, any subsisting contract with the Government of, or with the Government of any State or Settlement

===== Page 132 =====
Within the Union, for or on account of the public service, or being otherwise interested in any such contract, he shall not have published within one month before the day of election, in the Gazette or in some newspaper circulating in the State or Settlement in which he seeks election, a notice setting out the nature of such contract and his interest, or the interest of such firm or company, therein; or

(b) if he is disqualified for membership of the Council under any prescribed provision for the time being in force in the State or Settlement concerned relating to offences connected with the election of Members.

57.—(1) The seat of a Nominated Member of a State Council or Settlement Council shall become vacant upon the occurrence of any event which, if he were an Official Member or Unofficial Member, as the case may be, of the Legislative Council, and the State or Settlement Council were the Legislative Council, would cause the seat of such Member to become vacant under the provisions of sub-section (3) of section 21 of this Order: Provided that paragraph (c) of sub-section (3) of section 21 shall have effect for the purpose of this sub-section as if for the words "if appointed under the proviso to section 19" there were substituted the words "in the case of a member of a Settlement Council".

(2) The seat of an Elected Member of a State or Settlement Council shall become vacant upon the occurrence of any event which, if he were a Nominated Member of any such Council, would cause his seat to become vacant under the provisions of sub-section (1) of this section, or if such Elected Member is disqualified for membership of the Council, under any prescribed provision for the time being in force in the State or Settlement concerned relating to offences connected with the election of Members.

(3) If an Unofficial Member or Elected Member shall be appointed temporarily to, or to act in, any office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, he shall not sit or vote in the Council so long as he continues to hold, or act in that office.

(4) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Nominated Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the State Council or Settlement Council concerned and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared, in manner aforesaid, again to be capable of discharging his said functions.

(5) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, suspend any Nominated Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the State Council or Settlement Council concerned. Every such suspension shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the State Council or Settlement Council concerned.

(6) Whenever the seat of a Member becomes vacant under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of this section, the vacancy shall forthwith be reported to the Governor in writing by the Clerk of the Council concerned.

===== Page 133 =====
Decision of questions as to Membership.

58.—(1) All questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain a Nominated Member of a State Council or Settlement Council shall be referred to and decided by the Governor in Council.

(2) All questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain an Elected Member shall be determined as may be prescribed.

Temporary Appointments.

59.—(1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in any State Council or Settlement Council as ex officio Members, or Nominated Official Members, or Nominated Unofficial Members, by reason of the fact that:

(a) an ex officio Member is lawfully discharging the functions of the Resident Commissioner; or

(b) one person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the ex officio Members; or

(c) a Nominated Member is lawfully discharging the functions of the office of Resident Commissioner or of an ex officio Member; or

(d) no person is lawfully discharging the functions of the office of an ex officio Member; or

(e) a Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or

(f) a Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in this Order, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or

(g) a Member is absent from the Union; or

(h) a Nominated Unofficial Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of his having been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union or to act in any such office;

the Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint a person to be a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) If the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Nominated Official Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as a Nominated Official Member; and if the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Nominated Unofficial Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as a Nominated Unofficial Member.

(3) Every person appointed to be a Temporary Member under this section shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Nominated Official Members, an Official Member;

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Nominated Unofficial Members, a Nominated Unofficial Member;

and, subject to the provisions of this section, the provisions of sections 53 and 57 of this Order shall apply accordingly:

Provided that in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed

===== Page 134 =====
shall not be regarded as an Official Member in computing the number of such Members prescribed in accordance with section 48 of this Order.

(4) Any appointment under this section may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment under this section shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of revocation of the appointment or when the vacancy shall cease to exist.

60. The Resident Commissioner, if present, shall preside at meetings of the State Council or Settlement Council and, in his absence, such Member of the Council as he may, in writing, appoint, or in the absence of that Member, or if no Member be so appointed, the Senior Member present shall preside.

61.—(1) After the Resident Commissioner, the Members of each State Council and Settlement Council shall take precedence among themselves as the Governor may specially assign, and in the absence of such assignment, as follows:

First, the ex officio Members in such order as may be prescribed;

Secondly, the Nominated Official Members definitively appointed, according to the priority of their appointments as such or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Resident Commissioner;

Thirdly, the Nominated Official Members temporarily appointed under section 59 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments, or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Resident Commissioner;

Fourthly, the Nominated Unofficial Members and Elected Members, according to the length of time during which they have been continuously Members of the Council; Members elected or appointed at the same time taking precedence among themselves as the Resident Commissioner may assign.

(2) For the purposes of this section—

(a) when the State Council or Settlement Council is dissolved, Members elected at the ensuing elections shall be deemed to have been elected by virtue of those elections, and Nominated Unofficial Members appointed to fill vacancies caused thereby shall be deemed to have been appointed, on the date on which the report of the first successful candidate for election is made to the Governor;

(b) paragraph (a) of this sub-section shall apply to the Members elected or appointed to a State Council or Settlement Council as first constituted under this Order as if such elections or appointments were consequent upon a dissolution of the Council; and

(c) in ascertaining the period during which a person has continuously been an Elected Member or a Nominated Unofficial Member of the Council no account shall be taken of any interval between the vacation by that person of his seat in the Council in consequence of the expiration of his tenure of office or a dissolution of the Council and the date of his re-election or re-appointment to fill a vacancy in the Council caused by that expiration of tenure or that dissolution.

===== Page 135 =====
Filling of vacancies.

62. (1) Whenever the seat of a Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member becomes vacant, the vacancy shall be filled by appointment by the Governor.

(2) Whenever the seat of an Elected Member becomes vacant, a fresh election shall be held to fill the vacancy in accordance with such provisions as may be prescribed.

Voting.

63. Save as otherwise provided in this Order, all questions proposed for decision in the Council shall be determined by a majority of the votes of the Members present and voting. The Resident Commissioner shall not have an original vote, but if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, he shall have a casting vote. In the absence of the Resident Commissioner, the Member presiding shall have an original vote and also, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, a casting vote.

Assent to Bills. Disallowance of laws.

64. The provisions of sections 30 and 31 of this Order (which relate respectively to assent to Bills and disallowances of laws passed by the Legislative Council) shall apply to Bills and to laws passed by a State Council or Settlement Council.

Royal Instructions.

65. Subject to the provisions of this Order each State Council or Settlement Council shall, in the transaction of business and the passing of laws, conform as nearly as may be to the directions contained in any Instructions under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet which may from time to time be addressed to the Governor, and to any instructions of the Governor under the Public Seal which may from time to time be addressed to the Resident Commissioner, in that behalf.

Standing Orders.

66. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of such Instructions as aforesaid, each State Council or Settlement Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its own proceedings and the conduct of business and for the passing, intitulating and numbering of Bills, and for the presentation thereof to the Governor for his assent, but no such Rules or Orders shall have effect unless and until they shall have been approved by the Governor.

Official Language.

67. The official languages of each State Council and Settlement Council shall be Malay and English.

Quorum.

68. No business except that of adjournment shall be transacted by a State or Settlement Council if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than one quarter of the Members present besides the Resident Commissioner or Member presiding.

Introduction of Bills.

69. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council, any Member may introduce any Bill or propose any motion for debate in, or may present any petition to, a State Council or Settlement Council, and the same shall be debated and disposed of according to the Standing Rules and Orders:

Provided that, except with the recommendation or consent of the Resident Commissioner signified thereto, the Council shall not proceed upon any Bill, amendment, motion or petition, which, in the opinion of the Resident Commissioner or of the presiding Member, would—

(a) dispose of, or charge any public revenue or public funds of the State or Settlement, or revoke or alter any disposition thereof or charge thereon, or impose, alter, or repeal any rate, tax or duty; or

===== Page 136 =====
(b) Suspend the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council or any of them.

70. The sessions of each State Council or Settlement Council shall be held at such times and places as the Resident Commissioner shall from time to time by Proclamation appoint. There shall be a session of the Council at least once every year, so that a period of twelve months shall not intervene between the last sitting in one Session and the first sitting in the next Session.

71.—(1) The Resident Commissioner may at any time, by Proclamation, prorogue or dissolve a State Council or Settlement Council.

(2) On dissolution, all Members shall vacate their seats and the Council shall be reconstituted by election and appointment in accordance with the provisions of this Order at such time, within three months of every dissolution, as the Governor shall by Proclamation appoint.

PART VIII.

SULTAN’S ADVISORY COUNCILS.

72. There shall be established for each of the Malay States a Council to be called the Sultan’s Advisory Council.

73. Each Sultan’s Advisory Council shall consist of the Sultan as President and such Members as the Sultan shall from time to time appoint.

74. The functions of each Sultan’s Advisory Council shall be—

(a) to advise the Sultan on all matters affecting Muhammadan religion in the State;

(b) to advise the Sultan in the making of laws under this Part of this Order;

(c) to advise the Sultan on all matters which are referred to the Council by the Sultan or at the request of the Resident Commissioner with the approval of the Governor.

75.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, it shall be lawful for the Sultan of each of the Malay States, with the advice of the Sultan’s Advisory Council of such State, to make laws the provisions of which relate solely to matters of Muhammadan religion and do not involve the imposition, collection or remission of any tax or tithe.

(2) Such laws shall have effect only within the State concerned.

(3) When any such Bill has been approved by a Sultan’s Advisory Council, it shall be submitted to the Council of Sultans for approval by that Council pursuant to the provisions of section 40 of this Order. No Bill enacted by a Sultan with the advice of a Sultan’s Advisory Council shall become a law until it shall have been approved by the Council of Sultans and assented to by the Sultan of the State concerned pursuant to the provisions of that section.

(4) A law assented to by the Sultan shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the date of such publication, or if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

===== Page 137 =====
Qualifications for Membership.

76. Subject to the provisions of this Order, any person who is of Malay race, professing the Muhammadan religion, and of the age of twenty-one years or upwards shall be qualified to be a Member of a Sultan's Advisory Council, and no other person shall be qualified to be so appointed or, having been so appointed, shall sit or vote in such Council.

Disqualification for Membership.

77. A person shall be disqualified for membership of a Sultan's Advisory Council for any reason which would cause disqualification for Membership of the Legislative Council under the provisions of paragraphs (1), (2) or (3) of section 20 of this Order.

Tenure of Office.

78. Subject to the provisions of this Order, a Member of a Sultan's Advisory Council shall hold his seat in the Council during the pleasure of the Sultan of the State.

Presiding in Sultan's Advisory Councils.

79. The Sultan of the State concerned, if present, shall preside at meetings of the Sultan's Advisory Council and, in his absence, such Member of the Council as he may, in writing appoint, or in the absence of that Member or if no Member be so appointed, the senior Member present shall preside.

Precedence of Members.

80. The Members of each Sultan's Advisory Council shall take precedence among themselves as the Sultan of the State concerned may assign.

Conflict.

81. In the event of any conflict between a law made under this Part and a law made under Part V, or Part VII or made or continued under Part IX, of this Order, the provisions of the last mentioned law shall prevail.

Standing Orders.

82. Subject to the provisions of this Order, each Sultan's Advisory Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its own proceedings and the conduct of business and for the passing, intitulating and numbering of Bills, and for the presentation thereof to the Sultan for his assent.

Official language.

83. The official language of each Sultan's Advisory Council shall be Malay.

Sessions.

84.—(1) The Sessions of each Sultan's Advisory Council shall be held at such times and places as the Sultan shall from time to time appoint.

(2) There shall be a session of the Council once at least in every year.

PART IX.

TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS.

Governor may make laws.

85.—(1) Until such time as Parts IV and V of this Order shall come into operation, it shall be lawful for the Governor to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Union.

(2) In making such laws the Governor shall consult the Advisory Council.

(3) Section 31 of this Order shall apply to any law made under this Section as it applies to a law assented to by the Governor.

===== Page 138 =====
86.—(1) There shall be an Advisory Council which shall consist of the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary and such other persons as the Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint; and such persons shall hold their places in the said Council during the Governor’s pleasure.

(2) The Governor alone shall be entitled to submit questions to the Advisory Council for their advice. The Governor may act in opposition to the advice given to him by the Members of the Advisory Council if he shall in any case consider it right so to do. In such case, it shall be competent to any Member of the Advisory Council to require that there be recorded on the Minutes any advice or opinion he may give upon the question and the grounds therefor.

(3) The Governor may regulate the procedure and practice of the Advisory Council in such manner as he shall see fit.

(4) The Governor may, by Proclamation in the Gazette, declare that this section shall cease to have effect, and thereupon this section shall cease to have effect accordingly on the date specified in the Proclamation.

87.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, the existing laws shall, except in so far as the same shall, in their application to the Union or to any part thereof, be repealed, amended or otherwise affected by or under any Act of Parliament, Order of His Majesty in Council or any law made under the provisions of this Order continue to have effect in the Union or, as the case may be, in that part thereof to which such law applied prior to the appointed day, but shall be construed subject to such modifications as may be necessary to bring them into conformity with the provisions of this Order.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section, the existing laws shall, except as aforesaid, in their application to any part of the Union, be construed, when the context admits, subject to the following modifications:

(a) references to the Colony of the Straits Settlements shall be construed as referring (but not exclusively) to the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang;

(b) references to the Federated Malay States shall be construed as references to the States of Negri Sembilan, Pahang, Perak and Selangor;

(c) references to the Governor or Governor in Council of the Colony of the Straits Settlements, or to the High Commissioner of the Malay States or to the Ruler of any Malay State or to any officer of, or authority, or body constituted in or for, the Straits Settlements or the Federated Malay States or any of the Malay States, shall be construed as references to the Governor or Governor in Council, or to the corresponding officer of, or authority or body constituted in or for the Union, as the case may be; and

(d) references to the Chief Justice or to any Court, Judge or Magistrate of the Straits Settlements or of the Federated Malay States or of any of the Malay States shall be construed as references to the Chief Justice or to the corresponding Court, Judge or Magistrate of the Union.

(3) The adaptations and modifications specified in the second column of the Second Schedule to this Order shall be made in the enactments mentioned in the first column of that Schedule.

===== Page 139 =====
(4) The enactments described in the First Schedule to the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890, shall apply to the Union as if the whole of the Union were a British Colony or Possession, but subject to the provisions of this Order and to the exceptions, adaptations, and modifications following, that is to say:

(i) The Governor is hereby substituted for the Governor of a Colony or British Possession, and the Supreme Court is hereby substituted for a Superior Court or Supreme Court, and for a Magistrate or Justice of the Peace, of a Colony or British Possession.

(ii) For the portions of the Merchant Shipping Acts, 1854 and 1867, referred to in the said Schedule, shall be substituted Part XIII of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894.

(iii) In section 51 of the Conveyancing (Scotland) Act, 1874, and any enactment for the time being in force amending the same, the High Court is substituted for a Court of Probate in a Colony.

(iv) For the purposes of Part II of the Fugitive Offenders Act, 1881, the Union, the Colony of Singapore, Sarawak, Brunei, North Borneo and Labuan shall be deemed to be one group of British possessions:

Provided that nothing in this sub-section contained shall be taken to extend to the Union the enactments mentioned in the Schedule to the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1913, or any of them.

(5) Where under the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894, or any amending Act, anything is authorised to be done by, to, or before a British Consular Officer, such thing may be done, in any place in the Union at which there is no Consular officer, by, to, or before such officer of the Government of the Union as the Governor may appoint.

(6) The Colonial Prisoners Removal Act, 1884, shall apply to and take effect within the Union as if the whole of the Union were a British Possession and part of His Majesty’s dominions, subject as follows:

The Governor is hereby substituted for the Governor of a British Possession.

Validity of previous acts.

88. Subject to the express provisions of this Order, nothing in this Order shall affect the validity or future operation of any lawful act done in any territory now comprised in the Union by any person or authority before the appointed day.

Pending proceedings.

89. All proceedings commenced before the 15th day of February, 1942, in any Court of Justice in, or having jurisdiction in, any territory now comprised in the Union may be carried on in like manner as nearly as may be, as if this Order and the Act of 1946, had not been made or passed but in the corresponding Court of the Union, and any such proceeding may be amended in such manner as may appear necessary or proper in order to bring it into conformity with the provisions of this Order.

Crimes committed and causes of action arising prior to the appointed day.

90. Courts constituted for the Union shall have, within their respective powers, jurisdiction with respect to all offences (including offences against Proclamations issued by, or under the authority of, the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia) and causes of action committed or arising before the appointed day for which the accused might have been tried, or proceedings might have been had, within any of the Malay [POSSIBLY MISSING]

===== Page 140 =====
States or within either of the Settlements under the law (including the provisions of any such Proclamation) in force in the said State or in the Straits Settlements before the appointed day, and such jurisdiction shall be exercised in conformity with the law in force in the State or Settlement concerned at the date when the offence was committed or the cause of action arose and in accordance, as nearly as may be, with the procedure in force in Courts constituted under this Order.

91. Military Courts established in the Malay States or the Settlements by the British Military Administration by virtue of any Proclamation made by, or under the authority of the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia, in which proceedings have been commenced and are pending at the date of this Order shall be deemed to be lawfully constituted Courts with jurisdiction to continue and conclude such proceedings and to issue warrants for the custody of prisoners and the carrying out of sentences in accordance with such Proclamation and any Rules, Regulations or Orders made thereunder, after the appointed day. The powers and functions of a confirming authority or reviewing authority under any such Proclamation may be exercised by such person or persons as the Governor shall designate in that behalf.

92.—(1) In this section—

(i) "Malay States property" means property which, immediately before the appointed day, was vested in or was in the possession, or under the control or held on account of His Majesty, or the Ruler of any of the Malay States, or the Government of the Federated Malay States, or the Government of any of the Malay States, or any officer of any such Government for any of the purposes of any such Government;

(ii) "Straits Settlements property" means property which, immediately before the appointed day, was vested in, or was in the possession, or under the control, or held on account of His Majesty, or the Government of the Straits Settlements, or any officer of that Government, for any of the purposes of that Government; and

(iii) Any reference to property vested in any person or authority shall be construed as including a reference to any property in the possession, or under the control, or held on account, of that person or authority; and any direction that property shall be vested in any person or authority shall likewise be construed as including a direction, as the case may require, that the possession or control of property shall be transferred to, or that property shall be held on account of, that person or authority.

(2) Save as in this section otherwise provided, all Malay States property shall, as from the appointed day, vest in His Majesty, or in the appropriate officer of the Government of the Union, or in the person or body prescribed under sub-section (7) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Union.

(3) Save as in this section otherwise provided, all Straits Settlements property which was, immediately before the appointed day, either—

(a) immovable property situate in the Settlements or either of them; or

(b) vested solely for a purpose of the Government of the Straits Settlements which will, after the appointed day, be a purpose of the [POSSIBLY MISSING]

===== Page 141 =====
Government of the Union in relation to the Settlements or either of them;

shall vest in His Majesty or the appropriate officer of the Government of the Union, or the person or body prescribed under sub-section (7) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Union.

(4) Save as in this section otherwise provided any Straits Settlement property which was, immediately before the appointed day, vested for any purpose of the Government of the Straits Settlements which was common to the Settlements or either of them and to any other territory formerly included in the Straits Settlements but not included in the Union, shall be apportioned between the Union and such territory by agreement between the Governor and the Governor of such territory with the approval of a Secretary of State; or, in default of such agreement, shall be apportioned by order of a Secretary of State. Any such agreement or order may contain provisions for the assessment of values, for the perfecting of any transfer of property mentioned therein and for financial and other adjustments, and may contain such other provisions as may be considered necessary or expedient for carrying the apportionment into effect.

(5) Any Straits Settlements property apportioned to the Union under sub-section (4) of this section shall be vested in His Majesty or the appropriate officer of the Government of the Union, or the person or body prescribed under sub-section (7) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Union; and the Governor may make such vesting or other orders as may be considered necessary or expedient for carrying the provisions of this Section into effect, and for such purpose may appoint and empower persons to transfer property.

(6) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, any property which, immediately before the appointed day, was vested in the Ruler of any of the Malay States for any of the following purposes, shall continue to be vested in the Sultan of the State for the same purposes, that is to say—

(a) any property held by, or in trust for, or for the benefit of a Ruler for his official or personal use; or

(b) any building or land used for purposes of the Muhammadan religion, or property pertaining to the endowment of Muhammadan religious institutions;

and nothing in this section shall affect the use or enjoyment of any property vested in a Ruler or in His Majesty for any of the said purposes.

(7) The Governor may make regulations for determining, in cases of doubt, the person or body in whom property affected by this section shall be vested, and generally for giving effect to this section, and may, by Order, exclude any particular property from the operation of this section, or declare, for the removal of doubt, whether and in what manner, any particular property is affected thereby.

93.—(1) All liabilities incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Federated Malay States or of the Government of any of the Malay States for any of the purposes of any such Government shall be deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Union.

===== Page 142 =====
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section—

(a) Such liabilities shall include claims in respect of loans issued, and Post Office Savings Bank deposits received, by the Government of the Federated Malay States or the Government of any of the Malay States.

(b) Claims to pensions, gratuities and other like allowances in respect of service under the Government of the Federated Malay States or the Government of any of the Malay States before the appointed day, whether arising before or after that day, shall be liabilities deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Union.

(3) All liabilities incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Straits Settlements solely for a purpose which will, after the appointed day, be a purpose of the Government of the Union in relation to the Settlements or either of them shall be deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Union.

(4) It shall be lawful for the Governor, with the approval of a Secretary of State, to make, vary, rescind and carry into effect, arrangements with the Governor of any territory formerly included in the Straits Settlements but not included in the Union for the payment to the Government of that territory from the funds of the Government of the Union, of contribution towards the sums necessary to defray such of the liabilities of the Government of the Straits Settlements as shall have been transferred, by any Order in Council or otherwise, to the Government of that territory, including liabilities for the service and repayment of loans and War Savings Certificates issued, Post Office Savings Bank deposits received and pensions, allowances and gratuities payable, by the Government of the Straits Settlements. Such contributions shall be proportionate to the share of such liabilities which, a Secretary of State is satisfied, is properly attributable to the Settlements.

(5) Claims in respect of liabilities deemed, by virtue of this section, to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Union which, if the Act of 1946 had not been passed and this Order had not been made, might have been enforced against His Majesty in His Government of the Straits Settlements, or against the Government of the Federated Malay States or of any of the Malay States or against any officer of any such Government in his official capacity or against any department of any such Government in connection with the administration of the Settlements or either of them or of the Federated Malay States or of any Malay State, may be enforced in such manner as may be prescribed by laws for the time being in force or by any regulation made by the Governor under sub-section (6) of this section, against His Majesty in His Government of the Union or against the Government or the appropriate officer of the Government of the Union, as the case may be.

(6) The Governor may make regulations for determining in any case of doubt the person or body by or against whom claims may be enforced under this section and generally for giving effect thereto.

94. The provisions of sections 88 to 93 inclusive of this Order may be amended by laws made under Part V or under section 85 of this Order.

===== Page 143 =====
PART X.

MISCELLANEOUS.

Oath of Allegiance.

95. Except for the purpose of enabling this section to be complied with, no Member shall sit or vote on any Council constituted under Section 13 and Parts IV and VII of this Order until he shall have taken and subscribed before the Governor, or some person authorized by the Governor in that behalf, the Oath of Allegiance in the form set out in the First Schedule to this Order:

Provided that every person authorised by law to make an affirmation instead of taking an oath in legal proceedings may make such affirmation in like terms instead of the said oath.

Provisions necessary to give effect to the Order.

96.—(1) Provision may be made by laws made under this Order and, until such provision has been so made, by regulations made by the Governor, regulating any matter which by this Order or by Instructions under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet is to be prescribed.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section, provision may be made regulating the election of Elected Members to any State Council or Settlement Council constituted by this Order including provision for regulating any of the following matters, that is to say:

(a) the persons, associations or bodies by whom Members are to be elected;
(b) the holding of elections;
(c) the qualifications of voters;
(d) the registration of voters;
(e) the ascertainment of the qualifications of voters and candidates;
(f) offences in relation to elections including the trial and punishment thereof; and
(g) the disposal of election petitions and the determination of questions otherwise arising regarding membership of the Councils.

(3) Such regulations shall be published in the Gazette; and thereafter every such regulation shall take effect on the day of publication or on such other day as may be therein specified and shall have the force of law.

Unqualified persons sitting or voting.

97. Any person who—

(a) having been elected or appointed a member of any Council constituted by this Order, but not having been at the time of such election or appointment, qualified to be so elected or appointed, shall sit or vote in such Council; or

(b) shall sit or vote in such Council after his seat therein has become vacant or he has become disqualified from sitting or voting therein; knowing, or having reasonable grounds for knowing, that he was disqualified, or that his seat has become vacant, as the case may be, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding two hundred dollars for every day upon which he so sits or votes.

(2) The said penalty shall be recoverable by action in the Supreme Court at the suit of the Attorney General.

===== Page 144 =====
98. No Council constituted by this Order shall be disqualified from the transaction of business by reason of any vacancy among the Members, or by reason of the sitting or voting therein of any unqualified or disqualified person.

99. For the avoidance of doubts it is hereby declared that any law or regulation made under this Order may be made to operate retrospectively to any date.

100.—(1) If any difficulty shall arise in bringing into operation any of the provisions of this Order or in giving effect to the purposes thereof, a Secretary of State may, by Order, make such provision as seems to him necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing the difficulty and may by such Order amend or add to any provision of this Order:

Provided that no Order under this section shall be made later than the first day of January, 1948:

(2) Any Order under this section may be amended, added to, or revoked by a further Order, and may be given retrospective effect to a day not earlier than the appointed day.

101. Nothing in this Order shall affect the power of His Majesty in Council to make laws from time to time for the peace, order and good government of the Union.

E. C. E. Leadbitter.

FIRST SCHEDULE.

OATH OF ALLEGIANCE.

(Sections 6 and 95).

I, ..., do swear that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to His Majesty King George VI, His Heirs and Successors, according to Law. So help me God.

OATH FOR THE DUE EXECUTION OF THE OFFICE OF GOVERNOR.

I, ..., do swear that I will well and truly serve His Majesty King George VI, His Heirs and Successors, in the Office of Governor. So help me God.

THE SECOND SCHEDULE.

(Section 87 (3)).

Adaptation of Acts of Parliament.

Title of Act. | Adaptation.
--- | ---
The Finance Act, 1922 | Subsection (2) of section 45 of the Act shall have effect as if the words “Negri Sembilan, Pahang, Perak, Selangor” were substituted for the words “the Federated Malay States and” in line two.
The Pensions (Governors of Dominions, etc.) Act, 1929. | Section 9 of the Act shall have effect as if the words “Malayan Union” were substituted for the words “Malay States” in the last line.

Printed by His Majesty’s Stationery Office Press,
Drury Lane, W.C.2.

===== Page 145 =====
80. All Overseas Territories of the Oceans shall be subject to the provisions of the Treaty of Paris.

17-500. The Treaty of Paris shall be ratified by the United States and the United Kingdom.

===== Page 146 =====
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE
The 27th day of March, 1946

Present

THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL.

WHEREAS there was this day read at the Board a letter to the Lord President of the Council from the Right Honourable George Henry Hall, one of His Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, transmitting the Draft of Instructions to be given to the Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Malayan Union:

His Majesty, having taken the same into consideration, was pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council, to approve thereof, and to order, as it is hereby ordered, that the Right Honourable George Henry Hall, one of His Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, do prepare the said Instructions (which are hereunto annexed) for His Majesty's Royal Signature.

E. C. E. Leadbitter.

===== Page 147 =====
INSTRUCTIONS to Our Governor and Commander-in-Chief in and over the Malayan Union, or to any other officer for the time being administering the Government of the Malayan Union.

WHEREAS by the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946 (hereinafter called "the Order in Council") We have ordered that as from the appointed day there shall be a Governor and Commander-in-Chief (in the Order in Council and hereinafter called "the Governor") in and over the Malayan Union (in the Order in Council and hereinafter called "the Union");

AND WHEREAS We have by the Order in Council empowered and commanded the Governor to do all things that belong to his said office in accordance with the Order in Council and such Commission as may be issued to him under Our Sign Manual and Signet and according to such Instructions as may from time to time be given to him under our Sign Manual and Signet, or through a Secretary of State, and such Orders in Council and other laws as may from time to time be in force in the Union;

AND WHEREAS We are minded to issue these Our Instructions under Our Sign Manual and Signet for the guidance of the Governor and any other Officer who may administer the Government of the Union;

NOW, THEREFORE, as from the appointed day, We do hereby direct and enjoin and declare Our Will and pleasure as follows:

1. The Governor may, whenever he thinks fit, require any person in the public service of the Union to take the Oath of Allegiance in the form prescribed by the Order in Council, together with such other oath or oaths as may from time to time be prescribed by any laws in force in the Union. The Governor is to administer such oaths or cause them to be administered by some public officer of the Union.

Instructions to be observed by Deputy.

2. Whenever there is a subsisting appointment of a Deputy to the Governor under the Order in Council, these Instructions, so far as they apply to any matter or thing to be done, or any functions to be performed by such Deputy, shall be deemed to be addressed to and shall be observed by such Deputy.

Constitution of Executive Council.

3. The Executive Council of the Union shall consist of the Governor as Chairman, three ex officio members, that is to say the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General and the Financial Secretary, together with two members holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union (hereinafter called "Official Members") and five members, not holding such office (hereinafter called "Unofficial Members") to be appointed by Us or by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal of the Union in pursuance of instructions from Us through a Secretary of State.

===== Page 148 =====
4.—(1) Subject to the provisions of the Order in Council, every Official or Unofficial Member of the Executive Council shall hold his seat in Council during His Majesty's pleasure, and, subject thereto, shall cease to be a Member at the end of three years from the date of the Instrument by which he is appointed, or such earlier date as may be provided by such Instrument; or previously if his seat shall become vacant under the provisions of these Instructions.

If any person is appointed to be a Temporary Member of the Council and his temporary appointment is immediately followed by his definitive appointment, the said period of three years shall be reckoned from the date of the Instrument by which he is appointed a Temporary Member.

(2) The seat of a Member of the Executive Council shall become vacant—

(a) upon his death; or

(b) if, being an Official Member, he shall cease to hold office of emolument under the Crown in the Union; or

(c) if, being an Unofficial Member, he shall be appointed permanently to any such office; or

(d) if he shall, by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor, resign his seat in the Executive Council; or

(e) if he shall be absent from the Union without written permission from the Governor:

Provided that a Member shall not be deemed to be absent from the Union for the purpose of this paragraph by reason only of absence in the Colony of Singapore for a period not exceeding one month.

(3) Any person vacating a seat as a Member of the Executive Council may, if qualified, be again appointed from time to time.

(4) If an Unofficial Member be appointed temporarily to any office of emolument under the Crown in the Union or to act in any such office, he shall not sit as an Unofficial Member of the Executive Council so long as he continues to hold or act in that office.

(5) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, suspend any Official or Unofficial Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the Executive Council. Every such suspension shall forthwith be reported by the Governor to Us through a Secretary of State and shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal, or by Us through a Secretary of State, or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the Executive Council.

(6) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Official or Unofficial Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council, and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared, in manner aforesaid, to be again capable of discharging his said functions.

5.—(1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council by reason of the fact that—

(a) an ex officio or Official Member is administering the Government of the Union; or

(b) one person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the three officers specified in clause 3 of these Instructions; or

===== Page 149 =====
(c) no person is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or
(d) a Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or
(e) the seat of a Member is vacant for any cause; or
(f) a Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in these Instructions that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or
(g) a Member is absent from the Union; or
(h) an Unofficial Member has been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union or to act in any such office;

a person may be appointed a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) The said person shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal and—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as ex officio or Official Members, shall be a person holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union; and

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as Unofficial Members, shall be a person not holding any such office.

(3) Every person so appointed shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of Members sitting in the Executive Council as ex officio or Official Members, an Official Member; and

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as Unofficial Members, an Unofficial Member; and, subject to the provisions of this clause, the provisions of clause 4 of these Instructions shall apply accordingly: Provided that, in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed shall not be regarded as an Official Member in computing the number of such Members for purposes of clause 3 of these Instructions.

(4) The Governor shall forthwith report every such temporary appointment to Us through a Secretary of State. Any such appointment may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be disallowed by Us through a Secretary of State or revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of disallowance by Us or of revocation by the Governor, or on supersession of the appointment by the definite appointment of a person to fill the vacancy, or when the vacancy shall otherwise cease to exist.

6. The Members of the Executive Council shall take precedence as We may specially assign and, in the absence of such assignment, as follows:—

First, the ex officio Members in the order in which they are specified in clause 3 of these Instructions;

===== Page 150 =====
Secondly, the Official Members, according to the priority of their appointments as Official Members; or if appointed on the same day, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor;

Thirdly, the Official Members temporarily appointed under clause 5, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor;

Fourthly, the Unofficial Members in order according to the dates when they were first appointed to be Members, or temporary Members as the case may be, of the Executive Council, and, in the case of more than one appointment on the same day, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor or, in the absence of such assignment, according to the alphabetical order of their names:

Provided that, where a Member is reappointed to fill a vacancy caused by the termination of his own term of office, the date from which he has been continuously a Member of the Council (any interval between such termination and re-appointment being disregarded) shall be regarded as the date of his appointment for the purposes of this clause.

7.—(1) The Executive Council shall not be summoned except by the authority of the Governor.

(2) The Executive Council shall not be disqualified for the transaction of business by reason of any vacancy among the Members; but no business except that of adjournment shall be transacted if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than three Members present besides the Governor or Member presiding.

8. The Governor shall, so far as is practicable, attend and preside at all meetings of the Executive Council, and, in his absence, such member as the Governor may appoint or, in the absence of such Member or if no Member be so appointed, the senior Member of the Council present shall preside.

9. The Governor shall consult with the Executive Council in the execution of all powers and authorities conferred upon him, except in cases—

(a) which are of such a nature that, in his judgment, Our service would sustain material prejudice by consulting the Council thereupon; or

(b) in which the matters to be decided shall be too unimportant to require their advice; or

(c) in which the matters are too urgent to admit of their advice being given by the time within which it may be necessary for him to act.

In every case falling within paragraph (c) of this clause, he shall, as soon as practicable, communicate to the Council the measures which he shall have adopted with the reasons therefor.

10. The Governor shall alone be entitled to submit questions to the Executive Council; but if the Governor decline to submit any question to the Council when requested in writing by any Member so to do, it shall be competent to such Member to require that there be recorded upon the Minutes his written application together with the answer returned by the Governor thereto.

11. The Governor may act in opposition to the advice given to him by Members of the Executive Council, if in any case it shall in his judgment be right so to do; but in any such case he shall at the first convenient opportunity, fully report the matter to Us through a Secretary of State with the reasons for his action. In every such case it shall

Summoning and quorum.

Governor to preside.

Consultation with Executive Council.

Governor to propose questions.

===== Page 151 =====
be competent to any Member of the Council to require that there be recorded upon the Minutes any advice or opinion he may give upon the question and the grounds therefor.

12. The Governor shall forthwith communicate to the Executive Council these Our Instructions and all such others as from time to time We may direct, or he shall find convenient for Our service to impart to them.

13. Minutes shall be kept of all the proceedings of the Executive Council and the Legislative Council. At every meeting of each Council the Minutes of the last preceding meeting shall be confirmed, with or without amendment as the case may require, before proceeding to the despatch of any other business. Twice in each year a full transcript of all Minutes of the Executive Council and of the Legislative Council for the preceding half-year shall be transmitted to Us through a Secretary of State.

14.—(1) In the making of laws the Governor and the Legislative Council shall observe, as far as practicable, the following Rules:

(a) All laws shall be styled "Ordinances" and the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor of the Malayan Union, with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council": Provided that in the case of:

(i) any law made by the Governor under section 85 of the Order in Council, the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor of the Malayan Union in accordance with the provisions of section 85 of the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946"; and

(ii) in the case of any law having effect by virtue of a declaration made by the Governor under section 29 of the Order in Council, the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor in accordance with the provisions of section 29 of the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946".

(b) All Ordinances shall be distinguished by titles, and shall be divided into successive sections consecutively numbered, and to every section there shall be annexed in the margin a short indication of its contents. The Ordinances enacted in each year shall be distinguished by consecutive numbers, commencing in each year with the number one.

(c) Each different matter shall be provided for by a different Ordinance without inter-mixing in one and the same Ordinance such things as have no proper relation to each other. No provision shall be inserted in any Ordinance which shall be foreign to what the title of such Ordinance imports; and no permanent provision shall be included in any temporary Ordinance.

(2) In the making of laws Resident Commissioners and State Councils and Settlement Councils shall observe, as far as practicable, the following Rules:

(a) All laws shall be styled "Enactments" and the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor with the advice and consent of the State Council"; or "enacted by the Governor with the advice and consent of the Settlement Council", as the case may be.

===== Page 152 =====
(b) The provisions of sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) of paragraph (r) of this clause shall apply to Enactments of State Councils and Settlement Councils.

(3) In the making of laws, Sultans in Sultan’s Advisory Councils shall conform, as nearly as may be, to any Instructions given by the Governor under the Public Seal in that behalf.

15.—(r) Save as hereinafter mentioned, the Governor shall not, without having previously obtained instructions through a Secretary of State, assent to any Bill passed by the Legislative Council, which falls within any of the following classes, unless such Bill contain a clause suspending the operation thereof until the signification in the Union of Our pleasure thereon, that is to say:

(1) Any Bill for the divorce of married persons;
(2) Any Bill whereby any grant of land or money, or other donation or gratuity, may be made to himself;
(3) Any Bill affecting the currency of the Union, or relating to the issue of bank notes;
(4) Any Bill establishing any Banking Association, or amending or altering the constitution, powers, or privileges of any Banking Association;
(5) Any Bill imposing differential duties;
(6) Any Bill the provisions of which shall appear to him to be inconsistent with obligations imposed upon Us by Treaty;
(7) Any Bill interfering with the discipline or control of Our Forces by land or sea or air;
(8) Any Bill relating to questions of defence or any matter affecting naval, military, or air forces or the control of aerial navigation or aircraft or the transport or means of communication of naval, military or air forces;
(9) Any Bill of any extraordinary nature and importance whereby Our prerogative, or the rights and property of Our subjects not residing in the Union, or the trade, transport or communications of any part of Our dominions, may be prejudiced;
(10) Any Bill containing any provision prohibiting, regulating or licensing the import or export of goods, or imposing or varying any customs, excise or export duty, tariff, levy or cess, or allowing any discount, rebate or drawback from any such duty, tariff, levy, or cess, or containing any other provision (whether of a similar nature to the foregoing or not), whereby the trade or commerce of the Colony of Singapore might be prejudicially affected, unless the Governor of the said Colony, having previously been informed of the provision, shall have signified that he does not object thereto;
(11) Any Bill whereby persons of any racial, religious or other community are made liable to any disabilities or restrictions to which persons of other such communities are not also subjected or made liable, or are granted advantages not extended to persons of other such communities;
(12) Any Bill the principle of which has evoked serious opposition by any racial, religious, or other community and which in the opinion of the Governor is likely to involve oppression or unfairness to any such community;
(13) Any Bill containing provisions to which Our assent has been once refused, or which have been disallowed by Us:

===== Page 153 =====
Provided that the Governor may assent in Our name to any Bill falling within any of the classes described in this sub-clause (except a Bill falling within any class mentioned in paragraph (6) or (10) of this sub-clause), if he shall have satisfied himself that an urgent necessity exists requiring that such Bill be brought into immediate operation but, in any such case, he shall at the earliest opportunity, transmit to Us any Bill to which he shall have assented, together with his reasons for so assenting.

(2) The Governor shall not, without previously having obtained instructions from a Secretary of State, permit to be introduced or put into operation by subordinate legislation or executive action any such provision as is mentioned in paragraph (10) of sub-clause (1) of this clause, unless the Governor of the Colony of Singapore, having previously been informed of the provision, shall have signified that he does not object thereto.

Private Bills.

16.—(1) Every Bill (not being a Government measure) intended to affect or benefit some particular person, association, or corporate body, shall contain a clause saving the right of Us, Our Heirs and Successors, all bodies politic and corporate, and all others, except such as are mentioned in the Bill and those claiming by, from, or under them.

(2) No such Bill shall be introduced into the Legislative Council until due notice has been given by not less than three successive publications of the Bill in the Gazette of the Union, and the Governor shall not assent thereto in Our Name unless it has been so published. A certificate under the hand of the Governor signifying that such publication has been made shall be transmitted to Us with the Bill or Ordinance.

Laws made by the Governor.

17. The provisions of clauses 15 and 16 shall apply mutatis mutandis to any law made by the Governor under section 85 of the Order in Council as they apply to a Bill requiring the Assent of the Governor.

18. When any Ordinance of the Legislative Council or Enactment of a State or Settlement Council shall have been enacted, the Governor shall forthwith transmit to Us, through a Secretary of State, for the signification of Our pleasure, a transcript in duplicate of the Ordinance or Enactment duly authenticated under the Public Seal of the Union and by his own signature, together with an explanation of the reasons and occasion for the enactment of the Ordinance or Enactment.

Laws to be published.

19. As soon as practicable after the commencement of each year, the Governor shall cause a complete collection of all Ordinances and Enactments enacted during the preceding year to be published for general information.

Appointments.

20.—(1) Every appointment by the Governor of any person to any office or employment shall, unless otherwise provided by law, be expressed to be during pleasure only.

(2) Save with the consent of the Governor, no person shall be appointed to public office in the Union who is not a Malayan Union citizen.

Regulations of power of pardon in capital cases.

21.—(1) Whenever any offender shall have been condemned by sentence of any civil Court in the Union to suffer death, the Governor shall call upon the Judge who presided at the trial to make to him a written report of the case of such offender, and shall cause such report to be taken into consideration at a meeting of the Executive Council, and he may cause the said Judge to be specially summoned to attend at such meeting and to produce his notes thereat. The Governor shall not pardon or reprieve any such offender unless it shall appear to

===== Page 154 =====
him expedient so to do, upon receiving the advice of the Executive Council thereon; but in all such cases he is to decide either to extend or to withhold a pardon or reprieve, according to his own deliberate judgment, whether the Members of the Executive Council concur therein or otherwise, entering nevertheless, in the Minutes of the Executive Council, his reasons at length, in case he should decide any such question in opposition to the judgment of the majority of the Members thereof.

(2) Until the Executive Council shall be constituted, references in this clause to the Executive Council shall be construed as references to the Advisory Council.

22. The Governor shall forward to Us, each year, through a Secretary of State, the annual book of returns commonly called the Blue Book, relating to Revenue and Expenditure, Public Works, Legislation, Civil Establishments, Pensions, Population, Schools, Course of Exchange, Imports and Exports, Agricultural Produce, Manufactures, and other matters in the said Blue Book more particularly specified with reference to the state and condition of the Union.

23. Except in circumstances in which he is not regarded as absent from the Union for the purposes of the Order in Council, the Governor shall not quit the Union without having first obtained leave from Us for so doing through a Secretary of State.

24.—(1) In these Our Instructions, unless inconsistent with the context:

“the appointed day” has the same meaning as in the Order in Council;

“the Executive Council”, “the Legislative Council” and “the Advisory Council” mean respectively the Executive Council, the Legislative Council and the Advisory Council of the Union constituted under and by virtue of the Order in Council;

“the Governor” includes every person for the time being administering the Government of the Union;

“Malayan Union citizen” means a citizen of the Union within the meaning of any Order in Council providing for Malayan Union citizenship;

“State Councils”, “Settlement Councils” and “Sultan’s Advisory Councils” mean respectively the State Councils, Settlement Councils and Sultan’s Advisory Councils constituted under and by virtue of the Order in Council; and

“Secretary of State” means one of Our Principal Secretaries of State.

(2) For the purposes of these Our Instructions, a person shall not be deemed to hold an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union by reason only that he is in receipt of a pension or other like allowance in respect of service under the Crown.

If it shall be declared by any law for the time being in force in the Union that an office shall not be an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union for all or any of the purposes of these Our Instructions, these Instructions shall have effect accordingly as if such law were enacted therein.

Given at Our Court at Saint James’s, this 27th day of March, 1946, in the Tenth year of Our Reign.

Printed by His Majesty’s Stationery Office Press,
Drury Lane, W.C.2.

===== Page 155 =====
The Governor and his officers are in the Ordinary Council.

The Executive Council, the Legislative Council, the Judicial Council, the Military Council, the Civilian Council, and the Administrative Council.

===== Page 156 =====
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE

The 27th day of March, 1946

Present

THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL

WHEREAS there was this day read at the Board a letter to the Lord President of the Council from the Right Honourable George Henry Hall, one of His Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, transmitting the Draft of Instructions to be given to the Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Colony of Singapore:

His Majesty, having taken the same into consideration, was pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council, to approve thereof, and to order, as it is hereby ordered, that the Right Honourable George Henry Hall, one of His Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, do prepare the said Instructions (which are hereunto annexed) for His Majesty's Royal Signature.

E. C. E. Leadbitter.

===== Page 157 =====
INSTRUCTIONS to Our Governor and Commander-in-Chief in and over Our Colony of Singapore, or to any other officer for the time being administering the Government of Our said Colony.

Recites Order in Council.

WHEREAS by the Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946 (hereinafter called "the Order in Council") We have ordered and declared that as from the appointed day there shall be a Governor and Commander-in-Chief (in the Order in Council and hereinafter called "the Governor") in and over Our Colony of Singapore (in the Order in Council and hereinafter called "the Colony"): 

AND WHEREAS We have by the Order in Council empowered and commanded the Governor to do all things that belong to his said office in accordance with the Order in Council and such Commission as may be issued to him under Our Sign Manual and Signet and according to such Instructions as may from time to time be given to him under Our Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, and such Orders in Council and other laws as may from time to time be in force in the Colony:

AND WHEREAS We are minded to issue these Our Instructions under Our Sign Manual and Signet for the guidance of the Governor and any other Officer who may administer the Government of the Colony:

NOW, THEREFORE, as from the appointed day, We do hereby direct and enjoin and declare Our Will and pleasure as follows:

1. The Governor may, whenever he thinks fit, require any person in the public service of the Colony to take the Oath of Allegiance in the form prescribed by the Order in Council, together with such other oath or oaths as may from time to time be prescribed by any laws in force in the Colony. The Governor is to administer such oaths or cause them to be administered by some public officer of the Colony.

2. Whenever there is a subsisting appointment of a Deputy to the Governor under the Order in Council, these Instructions, so far as they apply to any matter or thing to be done, or any powers or functions to be exercised or performed by such Deputy, shall be deemed to be addressed to and shall be observed by such Deputy.

3. The Executive Council of the Colony shall consist of the Governor as Chairman, four ex officio members, that is to say the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary and the President of the Municipal Commissioners, Singapore, together with two members (hereinafter called Official Members) holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony and four members (hereinafter called Unofficial Members) not holding such office to be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of instructions from Us through a Secretary of State.

===== Page 158 =====
4.—(1) Subject to the provisions of the Order in Council, every Official or Unofficial Member of the Executive Council shall hold his seat in Council during Our pleasure and, subject thereto, for three years from the date of the Instrument by which he is appointed, or until such earlier date as may be provided by that Instrument or upon which his seat shall become vacant under the provisions of these Instructions.

If any person is appointed to be a Temporary Member of the Council and his temporary appointment is immediately followed by his definitive appointment, the said period of three years shall be reckoned from the date of the Instrument by which he is temporarily appointed.

(2) The seat of a Member of the Executive Council shall become vacant—

(a) upon his death; or

(b) if, being an Official Member, he shall cease to hold office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony; or

(c) if, being an Unofficial Member, he shall be appointed permanently to any such office; or

(d) if he shall by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor, resign his seat on the Executive Council; or

(e) if he shall be absent from the Colony without written permission from the Governor:

Provided that a member shall not be deemed to be absent from the Colony for the purposes of this paragraph by reason only of absence in the Malayan Union for a period not exceeding one month.

(3) Any person vacating a seat as a Member of the Executive Council may, if qualified, be again appointed from time to time.

(4) If an Unofficial Member be appointed temporarily to any office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony or to act in any such office, he shall not sit as an Unofficial Member of the Executive Council so long as he continues to hold or act in that office.

(5) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, suspend any Official or Unofficial Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the Executive Council. Every such suspension shall forthwith be reported by the Governor to Us through a Secretary of State and shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal, or by Us through a Secretary of State, or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the Executive Council.

(6) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Official or Unofficial Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council, and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared in manner aforesaid to be again capable of discharging his said functions.

5.—(1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council by reason of the fact that—

(a) an ex officio or Official Member is administering the Government of the Colony; or

(b) one person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the four officers specified in Clause 3 of these Instructions; or

===== Page 159 =====
(c) No person is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or

(a) A Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or

(e) The seat of a Member is vacant for any cause; or

(f) A Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in these Instructions, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or

(g) A Member is absent from the Colony; or

(h) An Unofficial Member has been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony or to act in any such office;

a person may be appointed a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) The said person shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal and—

(a) In the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as ex officio or Official Members, shall be a person holding office or emolument under the Crown in the Colony; and

(b) In the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as Unofficial Members, shall be a person not holding any such office.

(3) Every person so appointed shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—

(a) In the case of a vacancy in the number of Members sitting in the Executive Council as ex officio Members or as Official Members, an Official Member;

(b) In the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as Unofficial Members, an Unofficial Member; and, subject to the provisions of this clause, the provisions of Clause 4 of these Instructions shall apply accordingly:

Provided that, in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed shall not be regarded as an Official Member in computing the number of such Members for purposes of Clause 3 of these Instructions.

(4) The Governor shall forthwith report every such temporary appointment to Us through a Secretary of State. Any such appointment may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be disallowed by Us through a Secretary of State or revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment under this clause shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of disallowance by Us or of revocation by the Governor, or on supersession of the appointment by the definitive appointment of a person to fill the vacancy, or when the vacancy shall otherwise cease to exist.

===== Page 160 =====
6. The Members of the Executive Council shall take precedence as we may specially assign and, in the absence of such assignment, as follows:

First, the ex officio Members in the order in which they are specified in Clause 3 of these Instructions;

Secondly, the Official Members according to the priority of their appointments as Official Members, or, if appointed on the same day, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor;

Thirdly, the Official Members temporarily appointed under Clause 5 in such order as may be assigned by the Governor;

Fourthly, the Unofficial Members in order according to the dates when they were first appointed to be Members, or Temporary Members as the case may be, of the Executive Council, and, in the case of more than one appointment on the same day, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor or, in the absence of such assignment, according to the alphabetical order of their surnames:

Provided that, where a Member is re-appointed to fill a vacancy caused by the termination of his own term of office, the date from which he has been continuously a Member of the Council (any interval between such termination and re-appointment being disregarded) shall be regarded as the date of his appointment for the purpose of this clause.

7.—(1) The Executive Council shall not be summoned except by the authority of the Governor.

(2) The Executive Council shall not be disqualified for the transaction of business by reason of any vacancy among the Members; but no business except that of adjournment shall be transacted if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than three Members present besides the Governor or Member presiding.

8. The Governor shall, so far as is practicable, attend and preside at all meetings of the Executive Council, and, in his absence, such Member as the Governor may appoint or, in the absence of such Member or if no Member be so appointed, the Senior Member of the Council actually present shall preside.

9. The Governor shall consult with the Executive Council in the execution of all powers and authorities conferred upon him, except in cases—

(a) which are of such a nature that, in his judgment, Our service would sustain material prejudice by consulting the Council thereupon; or

(b) in which the matters to be decided shall be too unimportant to require their advice; or

(c) in which the matters are too urgent to admit of their advice being given by the time within which it may be necessary for him to act.

In every case falling within paragraph (c) of this clause, he shall, as soon as practicable, communicate to the Council the measures which he shall have adopted with the reasons therefor.

===== Page 161 =====
Governor to propose questions.

10. The Governor shall alone be entitled to submit questions to the Executive Council; but if the Governor declines to submit any question to the Council when requested in writing by any Member so to do, it shall be competent to such Member to require that there be recorded upon the Minutes his written application together with the answer returned by the Governor thereto.

Governor may act in opposition to Executive Council.

11. The Governor may act in opposition to the advice given to him by Members of the Executive Council, if in any case it shall in his judgment be right so to do; but in any such case he shall, at the first convenient opportunity, fully report the matter to Us through a Secretary of State with the reasons for his action. In every such case it shall be competent to any Member of the Council to require that there be recorded upon the Minutes any advice or opinion that he may give upon the question and the grounds therefor.

Governor to communicate Instructions to Executive Council.

12. The Governor shall forthwith communicate to the Executive Council these Our Instructions and all such others as, from time to time, We may direct or he shall find convenient for Our service to impart to them.

Minutes of the Executive and Legislative Councils.

13. Minutes shall be kept of all the proceedings of the Executive Council and of the Legislative Council. At every meeting of each Council the Minutes of the last preceding meeting shall be confirmed, with or without amendment as the case may require, before proceeding to the dispatch of any other business. Twice in each year a full transcript of all Minutes of each Council for the preceding half-year shall be transmitted to Us through a Secretary of State.

Rules for the enactment of Ordinances.

14. In the making of laws the Governor and the Legislative Council shall observe, as far as practicable, the following Rules:

(1) All laws shall be styled "Ordinances" and the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor of the Colony of Singapore, with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council":

Provided that in the case of:

(a) any law made by the Governor under section 40 of the Order in Council, the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor of the Colony of Singapore in accordance with the provisions of section 40 of the Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946"; and

(b) in the case of any law having effect by virtue of a declaration made by the Governor under section 30 of the Order in Council, the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor in accordance with the provisions of section 30 of the Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946".

(2) All Ordinances shall be distinguished by titles, and shall be divided into successive sections consecutively numbered, and to every section there shall be annexed in the margin a short indication of its contents. The Ordinances enacted in each year shall be designated by consecutive numbers, commencing in each year with the number one.

===== Page 162 =====
(3) Each different matter shall be provided for by a different Ordinance without intermixing in one and the same Ordinance such things as have no proper relation to each other. No provision shall be inserted in any Ordinance which shall be foreign to what the title of such Ordinance imports; and no permanent provision shall be included in any temporary Ordinance.

15.—(1) Save as hereinafter mentioned, the Governor shall not, without having previously obtained instructions through a Secretary of State, assent to any Bill within any of the following classes, unless such Bill contain a clause suspending the operation thereof until the signification in the Colony of Our pleasure thereon, that is to say:

(1) Any Bill for the divorce of married persons:

(2) Any Bill whereby any grant of land or money, or other donation or gratuity, may be made to himself:

(3) Any Bill affecting the currency of the Colony, or relating to the issue of Bank Notes:

(4) Any Bill establishing any Banking Association, or amending or altering the constitution, powers, or privileges of any Banking Association:

(5) Any Bill imposing differential duties:

(6) Any Bill the provisions of which shall appear inconsistent with obligations imposed upon Us by Treaty:

(7) Any Bill interfering with the discipline or control of Our Forces by land or sea or air:

(8) Any Bill relating to questions of defence, or any matter affecting naval, military, or air forces or volunteer corps or the control of aerial navigation or aircraft or the transport or means of communication of naval, military, or air forces:

(9) Any Bill of an extraordinary nature and importance whereby Our Prerogative, or the rights and property of Our subjects not residing in the Colony, or the trade, transport or communications of any part of Our dominions, may be prejudiced:

(10) Any Bill containing any provisions prohibiting regulating or licensing the import or export of goods, or imposing or varying any customs, excise or export duty, tariff, levy or cess, or allowing any discount rebate or drawback from any such duty, tariff, levy or cess, or containing any other provision (whether of a similar nature to the foregoing or not), whereby the trade or commerce of the Malayan Union might be prejudicially affected, unless the Governor of the Malayan Union, having previously been informed of the provision shall have signified that he does not object thereto:

(11) Any Bill whereby persons of any racial, religious or other community are made liable to any disabilities or restrictions to which persons of other such communities are not also subjected or made liable, or are granted advantages not extended to persons of other such communities:

===== Page 163 =====
(12) Any Bill the principle of which has evoked serious opposition by any racial, religious, or other community and which, in the opinion of the Governor, is likely to involve oppression or unfairness to any such community:

(13) Any Bill containing provisions to which Our assent has been once refused, or which have been disallowed by Us:

Provided that the Governor may assent in Our name to any Bill falling within any of the classes described in this sub-clause (except a Bill falling within any class mentioned in paragraph (6) or (10) of this sub-clause) if he shall have satisfied himself that an urgent necessity exists requiring that such Bill be brought into immediate operation; but, in any such case, he shall, at the earliest opportunity, transmit to Us any Bill to which he shall have assented, together with his reasons for so assenting.

(2) The Governor shall not, without previously having obtained instructions from a Secretary of State, permit to be introduced or put into operation by subordinate legislation or executive action any such provision as is mentioned in paragraph (10) of sub-clause (1) of this clause unless the Governor of the Malayan Union, having previously been informed of the provision, shall have signified that he does not object thereto.

Private Bills.

16.—(1) Every Bill (not being a Government measure) intended to affect or benefit some particular person, association, or corporate body, shall contain a clause saving the right of Us, Our Heirs and Successors, all bodies politic and corporate, and all others, except such as are mentioned in the Bill and those claiming by, from or under them.

(2) No such Bill shall be introduced into the Legislative Council until due notice has been given by not less than three successive publications of the Bill in the Gazette of the Colony, and the Governor shall not assent thereto in Our Name unless it has been so published. A certificate under the hand of the Governor signifying that such publication has been made shall be transmitted to Us with the Bill or Ordinance.

Laws made by the Governor.

17. The provisions of Clauses 15 and 16 shall apply (mutatis mutandis) to the making of any law by the Governor as they apply to a Bill requiring the assent of the Governor.

Ordinances to be sent through Secretary of State.

18. When any Ordinance shall have been enacted, the Governor shall forthwith transmit to Us, through a Secretary of State, for the signification of Our pleasure, a transcript in duplicate of the Ordinance duly authenticated under the Public Seal of the Colony and by his own signature, together with an explanation of the reasons and occasion for the enactment of the Ordinance.

Ordinances to be published.

19. As soon as practicable after the commencement of each year, the Governor shall cause a complete collection of all Ordinances enacted during the preceding year to be published for general information.

Appointments to be during pleasure.

20. Every appointment by the Governor of any person to any Office or employment shall, unless otherwise provided by law, be expressed to be during pleasure only.

Regulations of power of pardon in capital cases.

21.—(1) Whenever any offender shall have been condemned by sentence of any civil Court in the Colony to suffer death, the Governor shall call upon the Judge who presided at the trial to make to him a written report of the case of such offender, and shall cause such report to be taken into consideration at a meeting of the Executive Council, and

===== Page 164 =====
He may cause the said Judge to be specially summoned to attend at such meeting and to produce his notes thereat. The Governor shall not pardon or reprieve any such offender unless it shall appear to him expedient so to do, upon receiving the advice of the Executive Council thereon; but in all such cases he is to decide either to extend or to withhold a pardon or reprieve, according to his own deliberate judgment, whether the Members of the Executive Council concur therein or otherwise, entering nevertheless, in the Minutes of the Executive Council, his reasons at length, in case he should decide any such question in opposition to the judgment of the majority of the Members thereof.

(2) Until the Executive Council shall be constituted, references in this clause to the Executive Council shall be construed as references to the Advisory Council.

22. The Governor shall forward to Us, each year, through a Secretary of State, the annual book of returns commonly called the Blue Book, relating to Revenue and Expenditure, Public Works, Legislation, Civil Establishments, Pensions, Population, Schools, Course of Exchange, Imports and Exports, Agricultural Produce, Manufactures, and other matters in the said Blue Book more particularly specified with reference to the state and condition of the Colony.

23. Except in circumstances in which he is not regarded as absent from the Colony for the purposes of the Order in Council, the Governor shall not quit the Colony without having first obtained leave from Us for so doing through a Secretary of State.

24.—(1) In these Our Instructions, unless inconsistent with the context:

“the appointed day” has the same meaning as in the Order in Council;

“the Executive Council”, “the Legislative Council” and “the Advisory Council” mean the Executive Council, the Legislative Council and the Advisory Council respectively of the Colony of Singapore constituted under and by virtue of the Order in Council;

“the Governor” includes every person for the time being administering the Government of the Colony; and “Secretary of State” means one of Our Principal Secretaries of State.

(2) For the purposes of these Our Instructions, a person shall not be deemed to hold an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony by reason only that he is in receipt of a pension or other like allowance in respect of service under the Crown.

If it shall be declared by any law for the time being in force in the Colony that an office shall not be an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony for all or any of the purposes of these Our Instructions, these Instructions shall have effect accordingly as if such law were enacted therein.

Given at Our Court at Saint James’s, this 27th day of March, 1946, in the Tenth year of Our Reign.

Printed by His Majesty’s Stationery Office Press, Drury Lane, W.C.2.

===== Page 165 =====
The purpose of the study was to investigate the relationship between the amount of oxygen and the amount of carbon dioxide in the blood of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The study was conducted as a randomized controlled trial with 100 patients. The patients were assigned to either a control group (no treatment) or a treatment group (treated with oxygen and carbon dioxide).

===== Page 166 =====
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE

The 27th day of March, 1946

Present

THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL

Whereas there was this day read at the Board a letter to the Lord President of the Council from the Right Honourable George Henry Hall, one of His Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, transmitting the Draft of Instructions to be given to the Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Colony of Singapore:

His Majesty, having taken the same into consideration, was pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council, to approve thereof, and to order, as it is hereby ordered, that the Right Honourable George Henry Hall, one of His Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, do prepare the said Instructions (which are hereunto annexed) for His Majesty's Royal Signature.

E. C. E. Leadbitter.

===== Page 167 =====
INSTRUCTIONS to Our Governor and Commander-in-Chief in and over Our Colony of Singapore, or to any other officer for the time being administering the Government of Our said Colony.

Recites Order in Council.

WHEREAS by the Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946 (hereinafter called "the Order in Council") We have ordered and declared that as from the appointed day there shall be a Governor and Commander-in-Chief (in the Order in Council and hereinafter called "the Governor") in and over Our Colony of Singapore (in the Order in Council and hereinafter called "the Colony"):

AND WHEREAS We have by the Order in Council empowered and commanded the Governor to do all things that belong to his said office in accordance with the Order in Council and such Commission as may be issued to him under Our Sign Manual and Signet and according to such Instructions as may from time to time be given to him under Our Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, and such Orders in Council and other laws as may from time to time be in force in the Colony:

AND WHEREAS We are minded to issue these Our Instructions under Our Sign Manual and Signet for the guidance of the Governor and any other Officer who may administer the Government of the Colony:

NOW, THEREFORE, as from the appointed day, We do hereby direct and enjoin and declare Our Will and pleasure as follows:

1. The Governor may, whenever he thinks fit, require any person in the public service of the Colony to take the Oath of Allegiance in the form prescribed by the Order in Council, together with such other oath or oaths as may from time to time be prescribed by any laws in force in the Colony. The Governor is to administer such oaths or cause them to be administered by some public officer of the Colony.

2. Whenever there is a subsisting appointment of a Deputy to the Governor under the Order in Council, these Instructions, so far as they apply to any matter or thing to be done, or any powers or functions to be exercised or performed by such Deputy, shall be deemed to be addressed to and shall be observed by such Deputy.

3. The Executive Council of the Colony shall consist of the Governor as Chairman, four ex officio members, that is to say the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary and the President of the Municipal Commissioners, Singapore, together with two members (hereinafter called Official Members) holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony and four members (hereinafter called Unofficial Members) not holding such office to be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of instructions from Us through a Secretary of State.

===== Page 168 =====
4.—(1) Subject to the provisions of the Order in Council, every Official or Unofficial Member of the Executive Council shall hold his seat in Council during Our pleasure, and, subject thereto, for three years from the date of the Instrument by which he is appointed, or until such earlier date as may be provided by that Instrument or upon which his seat shall become vacant under the provisions of these Instructions.

If any person is appointed to be a Temporary Member of the Council and his temporary appointment is immediately followed by his definitive appointment, the said period of three years shall be reckoned from the date of the Instrument by which he is temporarily appointed.

(2) The seat of a Member of the Executive Council shall become vacant—

(a) upon his death; or

(b) if, being an Official Member, he shall cease to hold office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony; or

(c) if, being an Unofficial Member, he shall be appointed permanently to any such office; or

(d) if he shall by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor, resign his seat on the Executive Council; or

(e) if he shall be absent from the Colony without written permission from the Governor:

Provided that a member shall not be deemed to be absent from the Colony for the purposes of this paragraph by reason only of absence in the Malayan Union for a period not exceeding one month.

(3) Any person vacating a seat as a Member of the Executive Council may, if qualified, be again appointed from time to time.

(4) If an Unofficial Member be appointed temporarily to any office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony or to act in any such office, he shall not sit as an Unofficial Member of the Executive Council so long as he continues to hold or act in that office.

(5) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, suspend any Official or Unofficial Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the Executive Council. Every such suspension shall forthwith be reported by the Governor to Us through a Secretary of State and shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal, or by Us through a Secretary of State, or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the Executive Council.

(6) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Official or Unofficial Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council, and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared in manner aforesaid, to be again capable of discharging his said functions.

5.—(1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council by reason of the fact that—

(a) an ex officio or Official Member is administering the Government of the Colony; or

(b) one person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the four officers specified in Clause 3 of these Instructions; or

===== Page 169 =====
(c) No person is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or

(d) a Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or

(e) the seat of a Member is vacant for any cause; or

(f) a Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in these Instructions, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or

(g) a Member is absent from the Colony; or

(h) an Unofficial Member has been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony or to act in any such office;

a person may be appointed a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) The said person shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal and—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as ex officio or Official Members, shall be a person holding office or emolument under the Crown in the Colony; and

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as Unofficial Members, shall be a person not holding any such office.

(3) Every person so appointed shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of Members sitting in the Executive Council as ex officio Members or as Official Members, an Official Member;

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as Unofficial Members, an Unofficial Member; and, subject to the provisions of this clause, the provisions of Clause 4 of these Instructions shall apply accordingly:

Provided that, in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed shall not be regarded as an Official Member in computing the number of such Members for purposes of Clause 3 of these Instructions.

(4) The Governor shall forthwith report every such temporary appointment to Us through a Secretary of State. Any such appointment may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be disallowed by Us through a Secretary of State or revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment under this clause shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of disallowance by Us or of revocation by the Governor, or on supersession of the appointment by the definitive appointment of a person to fill the vacancy, or when the vacancy shall otherwise cease to exist.

===== Page 170 =====
6. The Members of the Executive Council shall take precedence as we may specially assign and, in the absence of such assignment, as follows:

First, the ex officio Members in the order in which they are specified in Clause 3 of these Instructions;

Secondly, the Official Members according to the priority of their appointments as Official Members, or, if appointed on the same day, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor;

Thirdly, the Official Members temporarily appointed under Clause 5 in such order as may be assigned by the Governor;

Fourthly, the Unofficial Members in order according to the dates when they were first appointed to be Members, or Temporary Members as the case may be, of the Executive Council, and, in the case of more than one appointment on the same day, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor or, in the absence of such assignment, according to the alphabetical order of their surnames:

Provided that, where a Member is re-appointed to fill a vacancy caused by the termination of his own term of office, the date from which he has been continuously a Member of the Council (any interval between such termination and re-appointment being disregarded) shall be regarded as the date of his appointment for the purpose of this clause.

7. (1) The Executive Council shall not be summoned except by the authority of the Governor.

(2) The Executive Council shall not be disqualified for the transaction of business by reason of any vacancy among the Members; but no business except that of adjournment shall be transacted if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than three Members present besides the Governor or Member presiding.

8. The Governor shall, so far as is practicable, attend and preside at all meetings of the Executive Council, and, in his absence, such Member as the Governor may appoint or, in the absence of such Member or if no Member be so appointed, the Senior Member of the Council actually present shall preside.

9. The Governor shall consult with the Executive Council in the execution of all powers and authorities conferred upon him, except in cases—

(a) which are of such a nature that, in his judgment, Our service would sustain material prejudice by consulting the Council thereupon; or

(b) in which the matters to be decided shall be too unimportant to require their advice; or

(c) in which the matters are too urgent to admit of their advice being given by the time within which it may be necessary for him to act.

In every case falling within paragraph (c) of this clause, he shall, as soon as practicable, communicate to the Council the measures which he shall have adopted with the reasons therefor.

===== Page 171 =====
Governor to propose questions.

10. The Governor shall alone be entitled to submit questions to the Executive Council; but if the Governor declines to submit any question to the Council when requested in writing by any Member so to do, it shall be competent to such Member to require that there be recorded upon the Minutes his written application together with the answer returned by the Governor thereto.

Governor may act in opposition to Executive Council.

11. The Governor may act in opposition to the advice given to him by Members of the Executive Council, if in any case it shall in his judgment be right so to do; but in any such case he shall, at the first convenient opportunity, fully report the matter to Us through a Secretary of State with the reasons for his action. In every such case it shall be competent to any Member of the Council to require that there be recorded upon the Minutes any advice or opinion that he may give upon the question and the grounds therefor.

Governor to communicate Instructions to Executive Council.

12. The Governor shall forthwith communicate to the Executive Council these Our Instructions and all such others as, from time to time, We may direct or he shall find convenient for Our service to impart to them.

Minutes of the Executive and Legislative Councils.

13. Minutes shall be kept of all the proceedings of the Executive Council and of the Legislative Council. At every meeting of each Council the Minutes of the last preceding meeting shall be confirmed, with or without amendment as the case may require, before proceeding to the despatch of any other business. Twice in each year a full transcript of all Minutes of each Council for the preceding half-year shall be transmitted to Us through a Secretary of State.

Rules for the enactment of Ordinances.

14. In the making of laws the Governor and the Legislative Council shall observe, as far as practicable, the following Rules:

(1) All laws shall be styled "Ordinances" and the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor of the Colony of Singapore, with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council":

Provided that in the case of:

(a) any law made by the Governor under section 40 of the Order in Council, the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor of the Colony of Singapore in accordance with the provisions of section 40 of the Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946" and

(b) in the case of any law having effect by virtue of a declaration made by the Governor under section 30 of the Order in Council, the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor in accordance with the provisions of section 30 of the Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946".

(2) All Ordinances shall be distinguished by titles, and shall be divided into successive sections consecutively numbered, and to every section there shall be annexed in the margin a short indication of its contents. The Ordinances enacted in each year shall be designated by consecutive numbers, commencing in each year with the number one.

===== Page 172 =====
(3) Each different matter shall be provided for by a different Ordinance without intermixing in one and the same Ordinance such things as have no proper relation to each other. No provision shall be inserted in any Ordinance which shall be foreign to what the title of such Ordinance imports; and no permanent provision shall be included in any temporary Ordinance.

15.—(1) Save as hereinafter mentioned, the Governor shall not, without having previously obtained instructions through a Secretary of State, assent to any Bill within any of the following classes, unless such Bill contain a clause suspending the operation thereof until the signification in the Colony of Our pleasure thereon, that is to say:

(1) Any Bill for the divorce of married persons:

(2) Any Bill whereby any grant of land or money, or other donation or gratuity, may be made to himself:

(3) Any Bill affecting the currency of the Colony, or relating to the issue of Bank Notes:

(4) Any Bill establishing any Banking Association, or amending or altering the constitution, powers, or privileges of any Banking Association:

(5) Any Bill imposing differential duties:

(6) Any Bill the provisions of which shall appear inconsistent with obligations imposed upon Us by Treaty:

(7) Any Bill interfering with the discipline or control of Our Forces by land or sea or air:

(8) Any Bill relating to questions of defence, or any matter affecting naval, military, or air forces or volunteer corps or the control of aerial navigation or aircraft or the transport or means of communication of naval, military, or air forces:

(9) Any Bill of an extraordinary nature and importance whereby Our Prerogative, or the rights and property of Our subjects not residing in the Colony, or the trade, transport or communications of any part of Our dominions, may be prejudiced:

(10) Any Bill containing any provisions prohibiting regulating or licensing the import or export of goods, or imposing or varying any customs, excise or export duty, tariff, levy or cess, or allowing any discount rebate or drawback from any such duty, tariff, levy or cess, or containing any other provision (whether of a similar nature to the foregoing or not), whereby the trade or commerce of the Malayan Union might be prejudicially affected, unless the Governor of the Malayan Union, having previously been informed of the provision shall have signified that he does not object thereto:

(11) Any Bill whereby persons of any racial, religious or other community are made liable to any disabilities or restrictions to which persons of other such communities are not also subjected or made liable, or are granted advantages not extended to persons of other such communities;

===== Page 173 =====
(12) Any Bill the principle of which has evoked serious opposition by any racial, religious, or other community and which, in the opinion of the Governor, is likely to involve oppression or unfairness to any such community:

(13) Any Bill containing provisions to which Our assent has been once refused, or which have been disallowed by Us:

Provided that the Governor may assent in Our name to any Bill falling within any of the classes described in this sub-clause (except a Bill falling within any class mentioned in paragraph (6) or (10) of this sub-clause) if he shall have satisfied himself that an urgent necessity exists requiring that such Bill be brought into immediate operation; but, in any such case, he shall, at the earliest opportunity, transmit to Us any Bill to which he shall have assented, together with his reasons for so assenting.

(2) The Governor shall not, without previously having obtained instructions from a Secretary of State, permit to be introduced or put into operation by subordinate legislation or executive action any such provision as is mentioned in paragraph (10) of sub-clause (1) of this clause unless the Governor of the Malayan Union, having previously been informed of the provision, shall have signified that he does not object thereto.

Private Bills.

16.—(1) Every Bill (not being a Government measure) intended to affect or benefit some particular person, association, or corporate body, shall contain a clause saving the right of Us, Our Heirs and Successors, all bodies politic and corporate, and all others, except such as are mentioned in the Bill and those claiming by, from or under them.

(2) No such Bill shall be introduced into the Legislative Council until due notice has been given by not less than three successive publications of the Bill in the Gazette of the Colony, and the Governor shall not assent thereto in Our Name unless it has been so published. A certificate under the hand of the Governor signifying that such publication has been made shall be transmitted to Us with the Bill or Ordinance.

Laws made by the Governor.

17. The provision of Clauses 15 and 16 shall apply (mutatis mutandis) to the making of any law by the Governor as they apply to a Bill requiring the assent of the Governor.

Ordinances to be sent through Secretary of State.

18. When any Ordinance shall have been enacted, the Governor shall forthwith transmit to Us, through a Secretary of State, for the signification of Our pleasure, a transcript in duplicate of the Ordinance duly authenticated under the Public Seal of the Colony and by his own signature, together with an explanation of the reasons and occasion for the enactment of the Ordinance.

Ordinances to be published.

19. As soon as practicable after the commencement of each year, the Governor shall cause a complete collection of all Ordinances enacted during the preceding year to be published for general information.

Appointments to be during pleasure.

20. Every appointment by the Governor of any person to any Office or employment shall, unless otherwise provided by law, be expressed to be during pleasure only.

Regulations of power of pardon in capital cases.

21.—(1) Whenever any offender shall have been condemned by sentence of any civil Court in the Colony to suffer death, the Governor shall call upon the Judge who presided at the trial to make to him a written report of the case of such offender, and shall cause such report to be taken into consideration at a meeting of the Executive Council, and

===== Page 174 =====
He may cause the said Judge to be specially summoned to attend at such meeting and to produce his notes thereat. The Governor shall not pardon or reprieve any such offender unless it shall appear to him expedient so to do, upon receiving the advice of the Executive Council thereon; but in all such cases he is to decide either to extend or to withhold a pardon or reprieve, according to his own deliberate judgment, whether the Members of the Executive Council concur therein or otherwise, entering nevertheless, in the Minutes of the Executive Council, his reasons at length, in case he should decide any such question in opposition to the judgment of the majority of the Members thereof.

(2) Until the Executive Council shall be constituted, references in this clause to the Executive Council shall be construed as references to the Advisory Council.

22. The Governor shall forward to Us, each year, through a Secretary of State, the annual book of returns commonly called the Blue Book, relating to Revenue and Expenditure, Public Works, Legislation, Civil Establishments, Pensions, Population, Schools, Course of Exchange, Imports and Exports, Agricultural Produce, Manufactures, and other matters in the said Blue Book more particularly specified with reference to the state and condition of the Colony.

23. Except in circumstances in which he is not regarded as absent from the Colony for the purposes of the Order in Council, the Governor shall not quit the Colony without having first obtained leave from Us for so doing through a Secretary of State.

24.—(1) In these Our Instructions, unless inconsistent with the context:

“the appointed day” has the same meaning as in the Order in Council;

“the Executive Council”, “the Legislative Council” and “the Advisory Council” mean the Executive Council, the Legislative Council and the Advisory Council respectively of the Colony of Singapore constituted under and by virtue of the Order in Council;

“the Governor” includes every person for the time being administering the Government of the Colony; and “Secretary of State” means one of Our Principal Secretaries of State.

(2) For the purposes of these Our Instructions, a person shall not be deemed to hold an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony by reason only that he is in receipt of a pension or other like allowance in respect of service under the Crown.

If it shall be declared by any law for the time being in force in the Colony that an office shall not be an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony for all or any of the purposes of these Our Instructions, these Instructions shall have effect accordingly as if such law were enacted therein.

Given at Our Court at Saint James’s, this 27th day of March, 1946, in the Tenth year of Our Reign.

Printed by His Majesty’s Stationery Office Press,
Drury Lane, W.C.2.

===== Page 175 =====
172
Dung Lane W.C.

===== Page 176 =====
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE

The 27th day of March, 1946

Present

THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL

WHEREAS there was this day read at the Board a letter to the Lord President of the Council from the Right Honourable George Henry Hall, one of His Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, transmitting the Draft of Instructions to be given to the Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Colony of Singapore:

His Majesty, having taken the same into consideration, was pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council, to approve thereof, and to order, as it is hereby ordered, that the Right Honourable George Henry Hall, one of His Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, do prepare the said Instructions (which are hereunto annexed) for His Majesty's Royal Signature.

E. C. E. Leadbitter.

===== Page 177 =====
INSTRUCTIONS to Our Governor and Commander-in-Chief in and over Our Colony of Singapore, or to any other officer for the time being administering the Government of Our said Colony.

Recites Order in Council.

WHEREAS by the Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946 (hereinafter called "the Order in Council") We have ordered and declared that as from the appointed day there shall be a Governor and Commander-in-Chief (in the Order in Council and hereinafter called "the Governor") in and over Our Colony of Singapore (in the Order in Council and hereinafter called "the Colony"):

AND WHEREAS We have by the Order in Council empowered and commanded the Governor to do all things that belong to his said office in accordance with the Order in Council and such Commission as may be issued to him under Our Sign Manual and Signet and according to such Instructions as may from time to time be given to him under Our Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, and such Orders in Council and other laws as may from time to time be in force in the Colony:

AND WHEREAS We are minded to issue these Our Instructions under Our Sign Manual and Signet for the guidance of the Governor and any other Officer who may administer the Government of the Colony:

NOW, THEREFORE, as from the appointed day, We do hereby direct and enjoin and declare Our Will and pleasure as follows:

1. The Governor may, whenever he thinks fit, require any person in the public service of the Colony to take the Oath of Allegiance in the form prescribed by the Order in Council, together with such other oath or oaths as may from time to time be prescribed by any laws in force in the Colony. The Governor is to administer such oaths or cause them to be administered by some public officer of the Colony.

2. Whenever there is a subsisting appointment of a Deputy to the Governor under the Order in Council, these Instructions, so far as they apply to any matter or thing to be done, or any powers or functions to be exercised or performed by such Deputy, shall be deemed to be addressed to and shall be observed by such Deputy.

3. The Executive Council of the Colony shall consist of the Governor as Chairman, four ex officio members, that is to say the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary and the President of the Municipal Commissioners, Singapore, together with two members (hereinafter called Official Members) holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony and four members (hereinafter called Unofficial Members) not holding such office to be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of instructions from Us through a Secretary of State.

===== Page 178 =====
4.—(1) Subject to the provisions of the Order in Council every Official or Unofficial Member of the Executive Council shall hold his seat in Council during Our pleasure, and, subject thereto, for three years from the date of the Instrument by which he is appointed, or until such earlier date as may be provided by that Instrument or upon which his seat shall become vacant under the provisions of these Instructions.

If any person is appointed to be a Temporary Member of the Council and his temporary appointment is immediately followed by his definitive appointment, the said period of three years shall be reckoned from the date of the Instrument by which he is temporarily appointed.

(2) The seat of a Member of the Executive Council shall become vacant—
(a) upon his death; or
(b) if, being an Official Member, he shall cease to hold office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony; or
(c) if, being an Unofficial Member, he shall be appointed permanently to any such office; or
(d) if he shall by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor, resign his seat on the Executive Council; or
(e) if he shall be absent from the Colony without written permission from the Governor:

Provided that a member shall not be deemed to be absent from the Colony for the purposes of this paragraph by reason only of absence in the Malayan Union for a period not exceeding one month.

(3) Any person vacating a seat as a Member of the Executive Council may, if qualified, be again appointed from time to time.

(4) If an Unofficial Member be appointed temporarily to any office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony or to act in any such office, he shall not sit as an Unofficial Member of the Executive Council so long as he continues to hold or act in that office.

(5) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, suspend any Official or Unofficial Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the Executive Council. Every such suspension shall forthwith be reported by the Governor to Us through a Secretary of State and shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal, or by Us through a Secretary of State, or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the Executive Council.

(6) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Official or Unofficial Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council, and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared in manner aforesaid, to be again capable of discharging his said functions.

5.—(1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council by reason of the fact that—
(a) an ex officio or Official Member is administering the Government of the Colony; or
(b) one person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the four officers specified in Clause 3 of these Instructions; or

===== Page 179 =====
(c) no person is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or

(d) a Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or

(e) the seat of a Member is vacant for any cause; or

(f) a Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in these Instructions, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or

(g) a Member is absent from the Colony; or

(h) an Unofficial Member has been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony or to act in any such office;

a person may be appointed a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) The said person shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal and—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as ex officio or Official Members, shall be a person holding office or emolument under the Crown in the Colony; and

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as Unofficial Members, shall be a person not holding any such office.

(3) Every person so appointed shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of Members sitting in the Executive Council as ex officio Members or as Official Members, an Official Member;

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as Unofficial Members, an Unofficial Member; and, subject to the provisions of this clause, the provisions of Clause 4 of these Instructions shall apply accordingly:

Provided that, in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed shall not be regarded as an Official Member in computing the number of such Members for purposes of Clause 3 of these Instructions.

(4) The Governor shall forthwith report every such temporary appointment to Us through a Secretary of State. Any such appointment may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be disallowed by Us through a Secretary of State or revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment under this clause shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of disallowance by Us or of revocation by the Governor, or on supersession of the appointment by the definitive appointment of a person to fill the vacancy, or when the vacancy shall otherwise cease to exist.

===== Page 180 =====
6. The Members of the Executive Council shall take precedence as we may specially assign and, in the absence of such assignment, as follows:

First, the ex officio Members in the order in which they are specified in Clause 3 of these Instructions;

Secondly, the Official Members according to the priority of their appointments as Official Members, or, if appointed on the same day, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor;

Thirdly, the Official Members temporarily appointed under Clause 5 in such order as may be assigned by the Governor;

Fourthly, the Unofficial Members in order according to the dates when they were first appointed to be Members, or Temporary Members as the case may be, of the Executive Council, and, in the case of more than one appointment on the same day, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor or, in the absence of such assignment, according to the alphabetical order of their surnames:

Provided that, where a Member is re-appointed to fill a vacancy caused by the termination of his own term of office, the date from which he has been continuously a Member of the Council (any interval between such termination and re-appointment being disregarded) shall be regarded as the date of his appointment for the purpose of this clause.

7. (1) The Executive Council shall not be summoned except by the authority of the Governor.

(2) The Executive Council shall not be disqualified for the transaction of business by reason of any vacancy among the Members; but no business except that of adjournment shall be transacted if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than three Members present besides the Governor or Member presiding.

8. The Governor shall, so far as is practicable, attend and preside at all meetings of the Executive Council, and, in his absence, such Member as the Governor may appoint or, in the absence of such Member or if no Member be so appointed, the Senior Member of the Council actually present shall preside.

9. The Governor shall consult with the Executive Council in the execution of all powers and authorities conferred upon him, except in cases—

(a) which are of such a nature that, in his judgment, Our service would sustain material prejudice by consulting the Council thereupon; or

(b) in which the matters to be decided shall be too unimportant to require their advice; or

(c) in which the matters are too urgent to admit of their advice being given by the time within which it may be necessary for him to act.

In every case falling within paragraph (c) of this clause, he shall, as soon as practicable, communicate to the Council the measures which he shall have adopted with the reasons therefor.

===== Page 181 =====
Governor to propose questions.

10. The Governor shall alone be entitled to submit questions to the Executive Council; but if the Governor declines to submit any question to the Council when requested in writing by any Member so to do, it shall be competent to such Member to require that there be recorded upon the Minutes his written application together with the answer returned by the Governor thereto.

Governor may act in opposition to Executive Council.

11. The Governor may act in opposition to the advice given to him by Members of the Executive Council, if in any case it shall in his judgment be right so to do; but in any such case he shall, at the first convenient opportunity, fully report the matter to Us through a Secretary of State with the reasons for his action. In every such case it shall be competent to any Member of the Council to require that there be recorded upon the Minutes any advice or opinion that he may give upon the question and the grounds therefor.

Governor to communicate Instructions to Executive Council.

12. The Governor shall forthwith communicate to the Executive Council these Our Instructions and all such others as, from time to time, We may direct or he shall find convenient for Our service to impart to them.

Minutes of the Executive and Legislative Councils.

13. Minutes shall be kept of all the proceedings of the Executive Council and of the Legislative Council. At every meeting of each Council the Minutes of the last preceding meeting shall be confirmed, with or without amendment as the case may require, before proceeding to the despatch of any other business. Twice in each year a full transcript of all Minutes of each Council for the preceding half-year shall be transmitted to Us through a Secretary of State.

Rules for the enactment of Ordinances.

14. In the making of laws the Governor and the Legislative Council shall observe, as far as practicable, the following Rules:

(1) All laws shall be styled "Ordinances" and the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor of the Colony of Singapore, with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council":

Provided that in the case of:

(a) any law made by the Governor under section 40 of the Order in Council, the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor of the Colony of Singapore in accordance with the provisions of section 40 of the Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946"; and

(b) in the case of any law having effect by virtue of a declaration made by the Governor under section 30 of the Order in Council, the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor in accordance with the provisions of section 30 of the Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946".

(2) All Ordinances shall be distinguished by titles, and shall be divided into successive sections consecutively numbered, and to every section there shall be annexed in the margin a short indication of its contents. The Ordinances enacted in each year shall be disguised by consecutive numbers, commencing in each year with the number one.

===== Page 182 =====
(3) Each different matter shall be provided for by a different Ordinance without intermixing in one and the same Ordinance such things as have no proper relation to each other. No provision shall be inserted in any Ordinance which shall be foreign to what the title of such Ordinance imports; and no permanent provision shall be included in any temporary Ordinance.

15.—(1) Save as hereinafter mentioned, the Governor shall not, without having previously obtained instructions through a Secretary of State, assent to any Bill within any of the following classes, unless such Bill contain a clause suspending the operation thereof until the signification in the Colony of Our pleasure thereon, that is to say:

(1) Any Bill for the divorce of married persons:

(2) Any Bill whereby any grant of land or money, or other donation or gratuity, may be made to himself:

(3) Any Bill affecting the currency of the Colony, or relating to the issue of Bank Notes:

(4) Any Bill establishing any Banking Association, or amending or altering the constitution, powers, or privileges of any Banking Association:

(5) Any Bill imposing differential duties:

(6) Any Bill the provisions of which shall appear inconsistent with obligations imposed upon Us by Treaty:

(7) Any Bill interfering with the discipline or control of Our Forces by land or sea or air:

(8) Any Bill relating to questions of defence, or any matter affecting naval, military, or air forces or volunteer corps or the control of aerial navigation or aircraft or the transport or means of communication of naval, military, or air forces:

(9) Any Bill of an extraordinary nature and importance whereby Our Prerogative, or the rights and property of Our subjects not residing in the Colony, or the trade, transport or communications of any part of Our dominions, may be prejudiced:

(10) Any Bill containing any provisions prohibiting regulating or licensing the import or export of goods, or imposing or varying any customs, excise or export duty, tariff, levy or cess, or allowing any discount rebate or drawback from any such duty, tariff, levy or cess, or containing any other provision (whether of a similar nature to the foregoing or not), whereby the trade or commerce of the Malayan Union might be prejudicially affected, unless the Governor of the Malayan Union, having previously been informed of the provision shall have signified that he does not object thereto:

(11) Any Bill whereby persons of any racial, religious or other community are made liable to any disabilities or restrictions to which persons of other such communities are not also subjected or made liable, or are granted advantages not extended to persons of other such communities:

===== Page 183 =====
(12) Any Bill the principle of which has evoked serious opposition by any racial, religious, or other community and which in the opinion of the Governor is likely to involve oppression or unfairness to any such community:

(13) Any Bill containing provisions to which Our assent has been once refused, or which have been disallowed by Us:

Provided that the Governor may assent in Our name to any Bill falling within any of the classes described in this sub-clause (except a Bill falling within any class mentioned in paragraph (6) or (10) of this sub-clause) if he shall have satisfied himself that an urgent necessity exists requiring that such Bill be brought into immediate operation; but, in any such case, he shall, at the earliest opportunity, transmit to Us any Bill to which he shall have assented, together with his reasons for so assenting.

(2) The Governor shall not, without previously having obtained instructions from a Secretary of State, permit to be introduced or put into operation by subordinate legislation or executive action any such provision as is mentioned in paragraph (10) of sub-clause (1) of this clause unless the Governor of the Malayan Union, having previously been informed of the provision, shall have signified that he does not object thereto.

Private Bills.

16.—(1) Every Bill (not being a Government measure) intended to affect or benefit some particular person, association, or corporate body, shall contain a clause saving the right of Us, Our Heirs and Successors, all bodies politic and corporate, and all others, except such as are mentioned in the Bill and those claiming by, from or under them.

(2) No such Bill shall be introduced into the Legislative Council until due notice has been given by not less than three successive publications of the Bill in the Gazette of the Colony, and the Governor shall not assent thereto in Our Name unless it has been so published. A certificate under the hand of the Governor signifying that such publication has been made shall be transmitted to Us with the Bill or Ordinance.

Laws made by the Governor.

17. The provisions of Clauses 15 and 16 shall apply (mutatis mutandis) to the making of any law by the Governor as they apply to a Bill requiring the assent of the Governor.

Ordinances to be sent through Secretary of State.

18. When any Ordinance shall have been enacted, the Governor shall forthwith transmit to Us, through a Secretary of State, for the signification of Our pleasure, a transcript in duplicate of the Ordinance duly authenticated under the Public Seal of the Colony and by his own signature, together with an explanation of the reasons and occasion for the enactment of the Ordinance.

Ordinances to be published.

19. As soon as practicable after the commencement of each year, the Governor shall cause a complete collection of all Ordinances enacted during the preceding year to be published for general information.

Appointments to be during pleasure.

20. Every appointment by the Governor of any person to any Office or employment shall, unless otherwise provided by law, be expressed to be during pleasure only.

Regulations of power of pardon in capital cases.

21.—(1) Whenever any offender shall have been condemned by sentence of any civil Court in the Colony to suffer death, the Governor shall call upon the Judge who presided at the trial to make to him a written report of the case of such offender, and shall cause such report to be taken into consideration at a meeting of the Executive Council, and

===== Page 184 =====
He may cause the said Judge to be specially summoned to attend at such meeting and to produce his notes thereat. The Governor shall not pardon or reprieve any such offender unless it shall appear to him expedient so to do, upon receiving the advice of the Executive Council thereon; but in all such cases he is to decide either to extend or to withhold a pardon or reprieve, according to his own deliberate judgment, whether the Members of the Executive Council concur therein or otherwise, entering nevertheless, in the Minutes of the Executive Council, his reasons at length, in case he should decide any such question in opposition to the judgment of the majority of the Members thereof.

(2) Until the Executive Council shall be constituted, references in this clause to the Executive Council shall be construed as references to the Advisory Council.

22. The Governor shall forward to Us, each year, through a Secretary of State, the annual book of returns commonly called the Blue Book, relating to Revenue and Expenditure, Public Works, Legislation, Civil Establishments, Pensions, Population, Schools, Course of Exchange, Imports and Exports, Agricultural Produce, Manufactures, and other matters in the said Blue Book more particularly specified with reference to the state and condition of the Colony.

23. Except in circumstances in which he is not regarded as absent from the Colony for the purposes of the Order in Council, the Governor shall not quit the Colony without having first obtained leave from Us for so doing through a Secretary of State.

24.—(1) In these Our Instructions, unless inconsistent with the context:

"the appointed day" has the same meaning as in the Order in Council;

"the Executive Council", "the Legislative Council" and "the Advisory Council" mean the Executive Council, the Legislative Council and the Advisory Council respectively of the Colony of Singapore constituted under and by virtue of the Order in Council;

"the Governor" includes every person for the time being administering the Government of the Colony; and "Secretary of State" means one of Our Principal Secretaries of State.

(2) For the purposes of these Our Instructions, a person shall not be deemed to hold an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony by reason only that he is in receipt of a pension or other like allowance in respect of service under the Crown.

If it shall be declared by any law for the time being in force in the Colony that an office shall not be an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony for all or any of the purposes of these Our Instructions, these Instructions shall have effect accordingly as if such law were enacted therein.

Given at Our Court at Saint James's, this 27th day of March, 1946, in the Tenth year of Our Reign.

Printed by His Majesty's Stationery Office Press,
Drury Lane, W.C.2.

===== Page 185 =====
The following is a list of the names of the individuals who have been identified in connection with the case.

1. John A. Smith
2. Robert B. Wilson
3. James C. Brown
4. William D. Clark
5. Thomas E. Davis
6. Robert E. Davis

[NOTE: The remainder of the list appears to be corrupted or repetitive listing of "William E. Davis" and "Thomas E. Davis" many times, often with numbering errors and repetitions. Also, there is considerable OCR noise and unrelated text fragments following item 6.]

[END OF CLEANED LIST]

[POSSIBLY MISSING: Additional unique individual names due to OCR corruption and repetition.]

[The remaining text contains excessive OCR noise, malformed table data, repeated words "Literate", "Theory", "Theorem", and corrupted fragments which do not form coherent content. This part is excluded for clarity and relevance.]

===== Page 186 =====
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE
The 27th day of March, 1946

Present
THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL.

WHEREAS there was this day read at the Board a letter to the Lord President of the Council from the Right Honourable George Henry Hall, one of His Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, transmitting the Draft of Instructions to be given to the Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Malayan Union:

His Majesty, having taken the same into consideration, was pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council, to approve thereof, and to order, as it is hereby ordered, that the Right Honourable George Henry Hall, one of His Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, do prepare the said Instructions (which are hereunto annexed) for His Majesty's Royal Signature.

E. C. E. Leadbitter.

===== Page 187 =====
INSTRUCTIONS to Our Governor and Commander-in-Chief in and over the Malayan Union, or to any other officer for the time being administering the Government of the Malayan Union.

WHEREAS by the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946 (hereinafter called "the Order in Council") We have ordered that as from the appointed day there shall be a Governor and Commander-in-Chief (in the Order in Council and hereinafter called "the Governor") in and over the Malayan Union (in the Order in Council and hereinafter called "the Union"):

AND WHEREAS We have by the Order in Council empowered and commanded the Governor to do all things that belong to his said office in accordance with the Order in Council and such Commission as may be issued to him under Our Sign Manual and Signet and according to such Instructions as may from time to time be given to him under our Sign Manual and Signet, or through a Secretary of State, and such Orders in Council and other laws as may from time to time be in force in the Union:

AND WHEREAS We are minded to issue these Our Instructions under Our Sign Manual and Signet for the guidance of the Governor and any other Officer who may administer the Government of the Union:

NOW, THEREFORE, as from the appointed day, We do hereby direct and enjoin and declare Our Will and pleasure as follows:

1. The Governor may, whenever he thinks fit, require any person in the public service of the Union to take the Oath of Allegiance in the form prescribed by the Order in Council, together with such other oath or oaths as may from time to time be prescribed by any laws in force in the Union. The Governor is to administer such oaths or cause them to be administered by some public officer of the Union.

2. Whenever there is a subsisting appointment of a Deputy to the Governor under the Order in Council, these Instructions, so far as they apply to any matter or thing to be done, or any functions to be performed by such Deputy, shall be deemed to be addressed to and shall be observed by such Deputy.

3. The Executive Council of the Union shall consist of the Governor as Chairman, three ex officio members, that is to say the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General and the Financial Secretary, together with two members holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union (hereinafter called "Official Members") and five members, not holding such office (hereinafter called "Unofficial Members") to be appointed by Us or by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal of the Union in pursuance of instructions from Us through a Secretary of State.

===== Page 188 =====
4.—(1) Subject to the provisions of the Order in Council, every Official or Unofficial Member of the Executive Council shall hold his seat in Council during His Majesty’s pleasure and, subject thereto, shall cease to be a Member at the end of three years from the date of the Instrument by which he is appointed, or such earlier date as may be provided by such Instrument; or previously if his seat shall become vacant under the provisions of these Instructions.

If any person is appointed to be a Temporary Member of the Council and his temporary appointment is immediately followed by his definitive appointment, the said period of three years shall be reckoned from the date of the Instrument by which he is appointed a Temporary Member.

(2) The seat of a Member of the Executive Council shall become vacant—

(a) upon his death; or

(b) if, being an Official Member, he shall cease to hold office of emolument under the Crown in the Union; or

(c) if, being an Unofficial Member, he shall be appointed permanently to any such office; or

(d) if he shall, by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor, resign his seat in the Executive Council; or

(e) if he shall be absent from the Union without written permission from the Governor:

Provided that a Member shall not be deemed to be absent from the Union for the purpose of this paragraph by reason only of absence in the Colony of Singapore for a period not exceeding one month.

(3) Any person vacating a seat as a Member of the Executive Council may, if qualified, be again appointed from time to time.

(4) If an Unofficial Member be appointed temporarily to any office of emolument under the Crown in the Union or to act in any such office, he shall not sit as an Unofficial Member of the Executive Council so long as he continues to hold or act in that office.

(5) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, suspend any Official or Unofficial Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the Executive Council. Every such suspension shall forthwith be reported by the Governor to Us through a Secretary of State and shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal, or by Us through a Secretary of State, or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the Executive Council.

(6) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Official or Unofficial Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council, and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared, in manner aforesaid, to be again capable of discharging his said functions.

5.—(1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council by reason of the fact that—

(a) an ex officio or Official Member is administering the Government of the Union; or

(b) one person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the three officers specified in clause 3 of these Instructions; or

===== Page 189 =====
(c) No person is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or

(d) A Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or

(e) The seat of a Member is vacant for any cause; or

(f) A Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in these Instructions, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or

(g) A Member is absent from the Union; or

(h) An Unofficial Member has been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union or to act in any such office;

a person may be appointed a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) The said person shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal and—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as ex officio or Official Members, shall be a person holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union; and

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as Unofficial Members, shall be a person not holding any such office.

(3) Every person so appointed shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of Members sitting in the Executive Council as ex officio or Official Members, an Official Member; and

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as Unofficial Members, an Unofficial Member; and, subject to the provisions of this clause, the provisions of clause 4 of these Instructions shall apply accordingly: Provided that, in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed shall not be regarded as an Official Member in computing the number of such Members for purposes of clause 3 of these Instructions.

(4) The Governor shall forthwith report every such temporary appointment to Us through a Secretary of State. Any such appointment may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be disallowed by Us through a Secretary of State or revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of disallowance by Us or of revocation by the Governor, or on supersession of the appointment by the definite appointment of a person to fill the vacancy, or when the vacancy shall otherwise cease to exist.

6. The Members of the Executive Council shall take precedence as We may specially assign and, in the absence of such assignment, as follows:—

First, the ex officio Members in the order in which they are specified in clause 3 of these Instructions;

===== Page 190 =====
Secondly, the Official Members, according to the priority of their appointments as Official Members; or if appointed on the same day, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor;

Thirdly, the Official Members temporarily appointed under clause 5, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor;

Fourthly, the Unofficial Members in order according to the dates when they were first appointed to be Members, or temporary Members as the case may be, of the Executive Council, and, in the case of more than one appointment on the same day, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor or, in the absence of such assignment, according to the alphabetical order of their names:

Provided that, where a Member is reappointed to fill a vacancy caused by the termination of his own term of office, the date from which he has been continuously a Member of the Council (any interval between such termination and re-appointment being disregarded) shall be regarded as the date of his appointment for the purposes of this clause.

7.—(1) The Executive Council shall not be summoned except by the authority of the Governor.

(2) The Executive Council shall not be disqualified for the transaction of business by reason of any vacancy among the Members; but no business except that of adjournment shall be transacted if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than three Members present besides the Governor or Member presiding.

8. The Governor shall, so far as is practicable, attend and preside at all meetings of the Executive Council, and, in his absence, such member as the Governor may appoint or, in the absence of such Member or if no Member be so appointed, the senior Member of the Council present shall preside.

9. The Governor shall consult with the Executive Council in the execution of all powers and authorities conferred upon him, except in cases—

(a) which are of such a nature that, in his judgment, Our service would sustain material prejudice by consulting the Council thereupon; or

(b) in which the matters to be decided shall be too unimportant to require their advice; or

(c) in which the matters are too urgent to admit of their advice being given by the time within which it may be necessary for him to act.

In every case falling within paragraph (c) of this clause, he shall, as soon as practicable, communicate to the Council the measures which he shall have adopted with the reasons therefor.

10. The Governor shall alone be entitled to submit questions to the Executive Council; but if the Governor decline to submit any question to the Council when requested in writing by any Member so to do, it shall be competent to such Member to require that there be recorded upon the Minutes his written application together with the answer returned by the Governor thereto.

11. The Governor may act in opposition to the advice given to him by Members of the Executive Council, if in any case it shall in his judgment be right so to do; but in any such case he shall at the first convenient opportunity, fully report the matter to Us through a Secretary of State with the reasons for his action. In every such case it shall

Summoning and quorum.

Governor to preside.

Consultation with Executive Council.

Governor to propose questions.

===== Page 191 =====
be competent to any Member of the Council to require that there be recorded upon the Minutes any advice or opinion he may give upon the question and the grounds therefor.

12. The Governor shall forthwith communicate to the Executive Council these Our Instructions and all such others as from time to time We may direct, or he shall find convenient for Our service to impart to them.

13. Minutes shall be kept of all the proceedings of the Executive Council and the Legislative Council. At every meeting of each Council the Minutes of the last preceding meeting shall be confirmed, with or without amendment as the case may require, before proceeding to the despatch of any other business. Twice in each year a full transcript of all Minutes of the Executive Council and of the Legislative Council for the preceding half-year shall be transmitted to Us through a Secretary of State.

14.—(1) In the making of laws the Governor and the Legislative Council shall observe, as far as practicable, the following Rules:

(a) All laws shall be styled "Ordinances" and the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor of the Malayan Union, with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council": Provided that in the case of:

(i) any law made by the Governor under section 85 of the Order in Council, the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor of the Malayan Union in accordance with the provisions of section 85 of the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946"; and

(ii) in the case of any law having effect by virtue of a declaration made by the Governor under section 29 of the Order in Council, the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor in accordance with the provisions of section 29 of the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946".

(b) All Ordinances shall be distinguished by titles, and shall be divided into successive sections consecutively numbered, and to every section there shall be annexed in the margin a short indication of its contents. The Ordinances enacted in each year shall be distinguished by consecutive numbers, commencing in each year with the number one.

(c) Each different matter shall be provided for by a different Ordinance without inter-mixing in one and the same Ordinance such things as have no proper relation to each other. No provision shall be inserted in any Ordinance which shall be foreign to what the title of such Ordinance imports; and no permanent provision shall be included in any temporary Ordinance.

(z) In the making of laws Resident Commissioners and State Councils and Settlement Councils shall observe, as far as practicable, the following Rules:

(a) All laws shall be styled "Enactments" and the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor with the advice and consent of the State Council"; or "enacted by the Governor with the advice and consent of the Settlement Council", as the case may be.

===== Page 192 =====
(b) The provisions of sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) of paragraph (1) of this clause shall apply to Enactments of State Councils and Settlement Councils.

(3) In the making of laws, Sultans in Sultan’s Advisory Councils shall conform, as nearly as may be, to any Instructions given by the Governor under the Public Seal in that behalf.

15.—(1) Save as hereinafter mentioned, the Governor shall not, without having previously obtained instructions through a Secretary of State, assent to any Bill passed by the Legislative Council, which falls within any of the following classes, unless such Bill contains a clause suspending the operation thereof until the signification in the Union of Our pleasure thereon, that is to say:

(1) Any Bill for the divorce of married persons;
(2) Any Bill whereby any grant of land or money, or other donation or gratuity, may be made to himself;
(3) Any Bill affecting the currency of the Union, or relating to the issue of bank notes;
(4) Any Bill establishing any Banking Association, or amending or altering the constitution, powers, or privileges of any Banking Association;
(5) Any Bill imposing differential duties;
(6) Any Bill the provisions of which shall appear to him to be inconsistent with obligations imposed upon Us by Treaty;
(7) Any Bill interfering with the discipline or control of Our Forces by land or sea or air;
(8) Any Bill relating to questions of defence or any matter affecting naval, military, or air forces or the control of aerial navigation or aircraft or the transport or means of communication of naval, military or air forces;
(9) Any Bill of any extraordinary nature and importance whereby Our prerogative, or the rights and property of Our subjects not residing in the Union, or the trade, transport or communications of any part of Our dominions, may be prejudiced;
(10) Any Bill containing any provision prohibiting, regulating or licensing the import or export of goods, or imposing or varying any customs, excise or export duty, tariff, levy or cess, or allowing any discount, rebate or drawback from any such duty, tariff, levy, or cess, or containing any other provision (whether of a similar nature to the foregoing or not), whereby the trade or commerce of the Colony of Singapore might be prejudicially affected, unless the Governor of the said Colony, having previously been informed of the provision, shall have signified that he does not object thereto;
(11) Any Bill whereby persons of any racial, religious or other community are made liable to any disabilities or restrictions to which persons of other such communities are not also subjected or made liable, or are granted advantages not extended to persons of other such communities;
(12) Any Bill the principle of which has evoked serious opposition by any racial, religious, or other community and which in the opinion of the Governor is likely to involve oppression or unfairness to any such community;
(13) Any Bill containing provisions to which Our assent has been once refused, or which have been disallowed by Us:

===== Page 193 =====
Provided that the Governor may assent in Our name to any Bill falling within any of the classes described in this sub-clause (except a Bill falling within any class mentioned in paragraph (6) or (10) of this sub-clause), if he shall have satisfied himself that an urgent necessity exists requiring that such Bill be brought into immediate operation but, in any such case, he shall at the earliest opportunity, transmit to Us any Bill to which he shall have assented, together with his reasons for so assenting.

(2) The Governor shall not, without previously having obtained instructions from a Secretary of State, permit to be introduced or put into operation by subordinate legislation or executive action any such provision as is mentioned in paragraph (10) of sub-clause (1) of this clause, unless the Governor of the Colony of Singapore, having previously been informed of the provision, shall have signified that he does not object thereto.

Private Bills.

16.—(1) Every Bill (not being a Government measure) intended to affect or benefit some particular person, association, or corporate body, shall contain a clause saving the right of Us, Our Heirs and Successors, all bodies politic and corporate, and all others, except such as are mentioned in the Bill and those claiming by, from, or under them.

(2) No such Bill shall be introduced into the Legislative Council until due notice has been given by not less than three successive publications of the Bill in the Gazette of the Union, and the Governor shall not assent thereto in Our Name unless it has been so published. A certificate under the hand of the Governor signifying that such publication has been made shall be transmitted to Us with the Bill or Ordinance.

Laws made by the Governor.

17. The provisions of clauses 15 and 16 shall apply mutatis mutandis to any law made by the Governor under section 85 of the Order in Council as they apply to a Bill requiring the Assent of the Governor.

18. When any Ordinance of the Legislative Council or Enactment of a State or Settlement Council shall have been enacted, the Governor shall forthwith transmit to Us, through a Secretary of State, for the signification of our pleasure, a transcript in duplicate of the Ordinance or Enactment duly authenticated under the Public Seal of the Union and by his own signature, together with an explanation of the reasons and occasion for the enactment of the Ordinance or Enactment.

Laws to be published.

19. As soon as practicable after the commencement of each year, the Governor shall cause a complete collection of all Ordinances and Enactments enacted during the preceding year to be published for general information.

Appointments.

20.—(1) Every appointment by the Governor of any person to any office or employment shall, unless otherwise provided by law, be expressed to be during pleasure only.

(2) Save with the consent of the Governor, no person shall be appointed to public office in the Union who is not a Malayan Union citizen.

Regulations of power of pardon in capital cases.

21.—(1) Whenever any offender shall have been condemned by sentence of any civil Court in the Union to suffer death, the Governor shall call upon the Judge who presided at the trial to make to him a written report of the case of such offender, and shall cause such report to be taken into consideration at a meeting of the Executive Council, and he may cause the said Judge to be specially summoned to attend at such meeting and to produce his notes thereat. The Governor shall not pardon or reprieve any such offender unless it shall appear to

===== Page 194 =====
him expedient so to do, upon receiving the advice of the Executive Council thereon; but in all such cases he is to decide either to extend or to withhold a pardon or reprieve, according to his own deliberate judgment, whether the Members of the Executive Council concur therein or otherwise, entering nevertheless in the Minutes of the Executive Council his reasons at length, in case he should decide any such question in opposition to the judgment of the majority of the Members thereof.

(2) Until the Executive Council shall be constituted, references in this clause to the Executive Council shall be construed as references to the Advisory Council.

22. The Governor shall forward to Us, each year, through a Secretary of State, the annual book of returns commonly called the Blue Book, relating to Revenue and Expenditure, Public Works, Legislation, Civil Establishments, Pensions, Population, Schools, Course of Exchange, Imports and Exports, Agricultural Produce, Manufactures, and other matters in the said Blue Book more particularly specified with reference to the state and condition of the Union.

23. Except in circumstances in which he is not regarded as absent from the Union for the purposes of the Order in Council, the Governor shall not quit the Union without having first obtained leave from Us for so doing through a Secretary of State.

24.—(1) In these Our Instructions, unless inconsistent with the context:

“the appointed day” has the same meaning as in the Order in Council;

“the Executive Council,” “the Legislative Council,” and “the Advisory Council” mean respectively the Executive Council, the Legislative Council, and the Advisory Council of the Union constituted under and by virtue of the Order in Council;

“the Governor” includes every person for the time being administering the Government of the Union;

“Malayan Union citizen” means a citizen of the Union within the meaning of any Order in Council providing for Malayan Union citizenship;

“State Councils,” “Settlement Councils,” and “Sultan’s Advisory Councils” mean respectively the State Councils, Settlement Councils, and Sultan’s Advisory Councils constituted under and by virtue of the Order in Council; and

“Secretary of State” means one of Our Principal Secretaries of State.

(2) For the purposes of these Our Instructions, a person shall not be deemed to hold an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union by reason only that he is in receipt of a pension or other like allowance in respect of service under the Crown.

If it shall be declared by any law for the time being in force in the Union that an office shall not be an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union for all or any of the purposes of these Our Instructions, these Instructions shall have effect accordingly as if such law were enacted therein.

Given at Our Court at Saint James’s, this 27th day of March, 1946, in the Tenth year of Our Reign.

Printed by His Majesty’s Stationery Office Press,
Drury Lane, W.C.2.

===== Page 195 =====
The Council will consider the proposed changes to the existing laws and regulations, and will make a decision on whether to approve or reject the proposed changes.

===== Page 196 =====
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE
The 27th day of March, 1946

Present

THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL.

WHEREAS there was this day read at the Board a letter to the Lord President of the Council from the Right Honourable George Henry Hall, one of His Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, transmitting the Draft of Instructions to be given to the Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Malayan Union:

His Majesty, having taken the same into consideration, was pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council, to approve thereof, and to order, as it is hereby ordered, that the Right Honourable George Henry Hall, one of His Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, do prepare the said Instructions (which are hereunto annexed) for His Majesty's Royal Signature.

E. C. E. Leadbitter.

===== Page 197 =====
INSTRUCTIONS to Our Governor and Commander-in-Chief in and over the Malayan Union, or to any other officer for the time being administering the Government of the Malayan Union.

WHEREAS by the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946 (hereinafter called "the Order in Council") We have ordered that as from the appointed day there shall be a Governor and Commander-in-Chief (in the Order in Council and hereinafter called "the Governor") in and over the Malayan Union (in the Order in Council and hereinafter called "the Union"):

AND WHEREAS We have by the Order in Council empowered and commanded the Governor to do all things that belong to his said office in accordance with the Order in Council and such Commission as may be issued to him under Our Sign Manual and Signet and according to such Instructions as may from time to time be given to him under Our Sign Manual and Signet, or through a Secretary of State, and such Orders in Council and other laws as may from time to time be in force in the Union:

AND WHEREAS We are minded to issue these Our Instructions under Our Sign Manual and Signet for the guidance of the Governor and any other Officer who may administer the Government of the Union:

NOW, THEREFORE, as from the appointed day, We do hereby direct and enjoin and declare Our Will and pleasure as follows:

1. The Governor may, whenever he thinks fit, require any person in the public service of the Union to take the Oath of Allegiance in the form prescribed by the Order in Council, together with such other oath or oaths as may from time to time be prescribed by any laws in force in the Union. The Governor is to administer such oaths or cause them to be administered by some public officer of the Union.

2. Whenever there is a subsisting appointment of a Deputy to the Governor under the Order in Council, these Instructions, so far as they apply to any matter or thing to be done, or any functions to be performed by such Deputy, shall be deemed to be addressed to and shall be observed by such Deputy.

3. The Executive Council of the Union shall consist of the Governor as Chairman, three ex officio members, that is to say the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General and the Financial Secretary, together with two members holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union (hereinafter called "Official Members") and five members, not holding such office (hereinafter called "Unofficial Members") to be appointed by Us or by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal of the Union in pursuance of instructions from Us through a Secretary of State.

===== Page 198 =====
4.—(1) Subject to the provisions of the Order in Council, every Official or Unofficial Member of the Executive Council shall hold his seat in Council during His Majesty's pleasure, and, subject thereto, shall cease to be a Member at the end of three years from the date of the Instrument by which he is appointed, or such earlier date as may be provided by such Instrument; or previously if his seat shall become vacant under the provisions of these Instructions.

If any person is appointed to be a Temporary Member of the Council and his temporary appointment is immediately followed by his definitive appointment, the said period of three years shall be reckoned from the date of the Instrument by which he is appointed a Temporary Member.

(2) The seat of a Member of the Executive Council shall become vacant—

(a) upon his death; or

(b) if, being an Official Member, he shall cease to hold office of emolument under the Crown in the Union; or

(c) if, being an Unofficial Member, he shall be appointed permanently to any such office; or

(d) if he shall, by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor, resign his seat in the Executive Council; or

(e) if he shall be absent from the Union without written permission from the Governor:

Provided that a Member shall not be deemed to be absent from the Union for the purpose of this paragraph by reason only of absence in the Colony of Singapore for a period not exceeding one month.

(3) Any person vacating a seat as a Member of the Executive Council may, if qualified, be again appointed from time to time.

(4) If an Unofficial Member be appointed temporarily to any office of emolument under the Crown in the Union or to act in any such office, he shall not sit as an Unofficial Member of the Executive Council so long as he continues to hold or act in that office.

(5) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, suspend any Official or Unofficial Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the Executive Council. Every such suspension shall forthwith be reported by the Governor to Us through a Secretary of State and shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal, or by Us through a Secretary of State, or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the Executive Council.

(6) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Official or Unofficial Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council, and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared, in manner aforesaid, to be again capable of discharging his said functions.

5.—(1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council by reason of the fact that—

(a) an ex officio or Official Member is administering the Government of the Union; or

(b) one person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the three officers specified in clause 3 of these Instructions; or

===== Page 199 =====
(c) No person is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or

(d) a Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or

(e) the seat of a Member is vacant for any cause; or

(f) a Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in these Instructions, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or

(g) a Member is absent from the Union; or

(h) an Unofficial Member has been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union or to act in any such office;

a person may be appointed a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) The said person shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal and—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as ex officio or Official Members, shall be a person holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union; and

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as Unofficial Members, shall be a person not holding any such office.

(3) Every person so appointed shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of Members sitting in the Executive Council as ex officio or Official Members, an Official Member; and

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as Unofficial Members, an Unofficial Member; and, subject to the provisions of this clause, the provisions of clause 4 of these Instructions shall apply accordingly: Provided that, in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed shall not be regarded as an Official Member in computing the number of such Members for purposes of clause 3 of these Instructions.

(4) The Governor shall forthwith report every such temporary appointment to Us through a Secretary of State. Any such appointment may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be disallowed by Us through a Secretary of State or revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of disallowance by Us or of revocation by the Governor, or on supersession of the appointment by the definite appointment of a person to fill the vacancy, or when the vacancy shall otherwise cease to exist.

6. The Members of the Executive Council shall take precedence as We may specially assign and, in the absence of such assignment, as follows:—

First, the ex officio Members in the order in which they are specified in clause 3 of these Instructions;

===== Page 200 =====
Secondly, the Official Members, according to the priority of their appointments as Official Members; or if appointed on the same day, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor;

Thirdly, the Official Members temporarily appointed under clause 5, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor;

Fourthly, the Unofficial Members in order according to the dates when they were first appointed to be Members, or temporary Members as the case may be, of the Executive Council, and, in the case of more than one appointment on the same day, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor or, in the absence of such assignment, according to the alphabetical order of their names:

Provided that, where a Member is reappointed to fill a vacancy caused by the termination of his own term of office, the date from which he has been continuously a Member of the Council (any interval between such termination and re-appointment being disregarded) shall be regarded as the date of his appointment for the purposes of this clause.

7.—(1) The Executive Council shall not be summoned except by the authority of the Governor.

(2) The Executive Council shall not be disqualified for the transaction of business by reason of any vacancy among the Members; but no business except that of adjournment shall be transacted if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than three Members present besides the Governor or Member presiding.

8. The Governor shall, so far as is practicable, attend and preside at all meetings of the Executive Council, and, in his absence, such member as the Governor may appoint or, in the absence of such Member or if no Member be so appointed, the senior Member of the Council present shall preside.

9. The Governor shall consult with the Executive Council in the execution of all powers and authorities conferred upon him, except in cases—

(a) which are of such a nature that, in his judgment, Our service would sustain material prejudice by consulting the Council thereupon; or

(b) in which the matters to be decided shall be too unimportant to require their advice; or

(c) in which the matters are too urgent to admit of their advice being given by the time within which it may be necessary for him to act.

In every case falling within paragraph (c) of this clause, he shall, as soon as practicable, communicate to the Council the measures which he shall have adopted with the reasons therefor.

10. The Governor shall alone be entitled to submit questions to the Executive Council; but if the Governor decline to submit any question to the Council when requested in writing by any Member so to do, it shall be competent to such Member to require that there be recorded upon the Minutes his written application together with the answer returned by the Governor thereto.

11. The Governor may act in opposition to the advice given to him by Members of the Executive Council, if in any case it shall in his judgment be right so to do; but in any such case he shall at the first convenient opportunity, fully report the matter to Us through a Secretary of State with the reasons for his action. In every such case it shall

Summoning and quorum.

Governor to preside.

Consultation with Executive Council.

Governor to propose questions.

===== Page 201 =====
be competent to any Member of the Council to require that there be recorded upon the Minutes any advice or opinion he may give upon the question and the grounds therefor.

12. The Governor shall forthwith communicate to the Executive Council these Our Instructions and all such others as from time to time We may direct, or he shall find convenient for Our service to impart to them.

13. Minutes shall be kept of all the proceedings of the Executive Council and the Legislative Council. At every meeting of each Council the Minutes of the last preceding meeting shall be confirmed, with or without amendment as the case may require, before proceeding to the despatch of any other business. Twice in each year a full transcript of all Minutes of the Executive Council and of the Legislative Council for the preceding half-year shall be transmitted to Us through a Secretary of State.

14.—(1) In the making of laws the Governor and the Legislative Council shall observe, as far as practicable, the following Rules:

(a) All laws shall be styled "Ordinances" and the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor of the Malayan Union, with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council": Provided that in the case of:

(i) any law made by the Governor under section 85 of the Order in Council, the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor of the Malayan Union in accordance with the provisions of section 85 of the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946"; and

(ii) in the case of any law having effect by virtue of a declaration made by the Governor under section 29 of the Order in Council, the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor in accordance with the provisions of section 29 of the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946".

(b) All Ordinances shall be distinguished by titles, and shall be divided into successive sections consecutively numbered, and to every section there shall be annexed in the margin a short indication of its contents. The Ordinances enacted in each year shall be distinguished by consecutive numbers, commencing in each year with the number one.

(c) Each different matter shall be provided for by a different Ordinance without inter-mixing in one and the same Ordinance such things as have no proper relation to each other. No provision shall be inserted in any Ordinance which shall be foreign to what the title of such Ordinance imports; and no permanent provision shall be included in any temporary Ordinance.

(2) In the making of laws Resident Commissioners and State Councils and Settlement Councils shall observe, as far as practicable, the following Rules:

(a) All laws shall be styled "Enactments" and the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor with the advice and consent of the State Council"; or "enacted by the Governor with the advice and consent of the Settlement Council", as the case may be.

===== Page 202 =====
(b) The provisions of sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) of paragraph (r) of this clause shall apply to Enactments of State Councils and Settlement Councils.

(3) In the making of laws, Sultans in Sultan’s Advisory Councils shall conform, as nearly as may be, to any Instructions given by the Governor under the Public Seal in that behalf.

15.—(1) Save as hereinafter mentioned, the Governor shall not, without having previously obtained instructions through a Secretary of State, assent to any Bill passed by the Legislative Council, which falls within any of the following classes, unless such Bill contains a clause suspending the operation thereof until the signification in the Union of Our pleasure thereon, that is to say:

(1) Any Bill for the divorce of married persons;
(2) Any Bill whereby any grant of land or money, or other donation or gratuity, may be made to himself;
(3) Any Bill affecting the currency of the Union, or relating to the issue of bank notes;
(4) Any Bill establishing any Banking Association, or amending or altering the constitution, powers, or privileges of any Banking Association;
(5) Any Bill imposing differential duties;
(6) Any Bill the provisions of which shall appear to him to be inconsistent with obligations imposed upon Us by Treaty;
(7) Any Bill interfering with the discipline or control of Our Forces by land or sea or air;
(8) Any Bill relating to questions of defence or any matter affecting naval, military, or air forces or the control of aerial navigation or aircraft or the transport or means of communication of naval, military or air forces;
(9) Any Bill of any extraordinary nature and importance whereby Our prerogative, or the rights and property of Our subjects not residing in the Union, or the trade, transport or communications of any part of Our dominions, may be prejudiced;
(10) Any Bill containing any provision prohibiting regulating or licensing the import or export of goods, or imposing or varying any customs, excise or export duty, tariff, levy or cess, or allowing any discount, rebate or drawback from any such duty, tariff, levy, or cess, or containing any other provision (whether of a similar nature to the foregoing or not), whereby the trade or commerce of the Colony of Singapore might be prejudicially affected, unless the Governor of the said Colony, having previously been informed of the provision, shall have signified that he does not object thereto;
(11) Any Bill whereby persons of any racial, religious or other community are made liable to any disabilities or restrictions to which persons of other such communities are not also subjected or made liable, or are granted advantages not extended to persons of other such communities;
(12) Any Bill the principle of which has evoked serious opposition by any racial, religious, or other community and which in the opinion of the Governor is likely to involve oppression or unfairness to any such community;
(13) Any Bill containing provisions to which Our assent has been once refused, or which have been disallowed by Us:

===== Page 203 =====
Provided that the Governor may assent in Our name to any Bill falling within any of the classes described in this sub-clause (except a Bill falling within any class mentioned in paragraph (6) or (10) of this sub-clause), if he shall have satisfied himself that an urgent necessity exists requiring that such Bill be brought into immediate operation but, in any such case, he shall at the earliest opportunity, transmit to Us any Bill to which he shall have assented, together with his reasons for so assenting.

(2) The Governor shall not, without previously having obtained instructions from a Secretary of State, permit to be introduced or put into operation by subordinate legislation or executive action any such provision as is mentioned in paragraph (10) of sub-clause (1) of this clause, unless the Governor of the Colony of Singapore, having previously been informed of the provision, shall have signified that he does not object thereto.

16.—(1) Every Bill (not being a Government measure) intended to affect or benefit some particular person, association, or corporate body, shall contain a clause saving the right of Us, Our Heirs and Successors, all bodies politic and corporate, and all others, except such as are mentioned in the Bill and those claiming by, from, or under them.

(2) No such Bill shall be introduced into the Legislative Council until due notice has been given by not less than three successive publications of the Bill in the Gazette of the Union, and the Governor shall not assent thereto in Our Name unless it has been so published. A certificate under the hand of the Governor signifying that such publication has been made shall be transmitted to Us with the Bill or Ordinance.

17. The provisions of clauses 15 and 16 shall apply mutatis mutandis to any law made by the Governor under section 85 of the Order in Council as they apply to a Bill requiring the Assent of the Governor.

18. When any Ordinance of the Legislative Council or Enactment of a State or Settlement Council shall have been enacted, the Governor shall forthwith transmit to Us, through a Secretary of State, for the signification of Our pleasure, a transcript in duplicate of the Ordinance or Enactment duly authenticated under the Public Seal of the Union and by his own signature, together with an explanation of the reasons and occasion for the enactment of the Ordinance or Enactment.

19. As soon as practicable after the commencement of each year, the Governor shall cause a complete collection of all Ordinances and Enactments enacted during the preceding year to be published for general information.

20.—(1) Every appointment by the Governor of any person to any office or employment shall, unless otherwise provided by law, be expressed to be during pleasure only.

(2) Save with the consent of the Governor, no person shall be appointed to public office in the Union who is not a Malayan Union citizen.

21.—(1) Whenever any offender shall have been condemned by sentence of any civil Court in the Union to suffer death, the Governor shall call upon the Judge who presided at the trial to make to him a written report of the case of such offender, and shall cause such report to be taken into consideration at a meeting of the Executive Council, and he may cause the said Judge to be specially summoned to attend at such meeting and to produce his notes thereat. The Governor shall not pardon or reprieve any such offender unless it shall appear to

===== Page 204 =====
him expedient so to do, upon receiving the advice of the Executive Council thereon; but in all such cases he is to decide either to extend or to withhold a pardon or reprieve, according to his own deliberate judgment, whether the Members of the Executive Council concur therein or otherwise, entering nevertheless, in the Minutes of the Executive Council, his reasons at length, in case he should decide any such question in opposition to the judgment of the majority of the Members thereof.

(2) Until the Executive Council shall be constituted, references in this clause to the Executive Council shall be construed as references to the Advisory Council.

22. The Governor shall forward to Us, each year, through a Secretary of State, the annual book of returns commonly called the Blue Book, relating to Revenue and Expenditure, Public Works, Legislation, Civil Establishments, Pensions, Population, Schools, Course of Exchange, Imports and Exports, Agricultural Produce, Manufactures, and other matters in the said Blue Book more particularly specified with reference to the state and condition of the Union.

23. Except in circumstances in which he is not regarded as absent from the Union for the purposes of the Order in Council, the Governor shall not quit the Union without having first obtained leave from Us for so doing through a Secretary of State.

24.—(1) In these Our Instructions, unless inconsistent with the context:

“the appointed day” has the same meaning as in the Order in Council;

“the Executive Council”, “the Legislative Council” and “the Advisory Council” mean respectively the Executive Council, the Legislative Council and the Advisory Council of the Union constituted under and by virtue of the Order in Council;

“the Governor” includes every person for the time being administering the Government of the Union;

“Malayan Union citizen” means a citizen of the Union within the meaning of any Order in Council providing for Malayan Union citizenship;

“State Councils”, “Settlement Councils” and “Sultan’s Advisory Councils” mean respectively the State Councils, Settlement Councils and Sultan’s Advisory Councils constituted under and by virtue of the Order in Council; and

“Secretary of State” means one of Our Principal Secretaries of State.

(2) For the purposes of these Our Instructions, a person shall not be deemed to hold an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union by reason only that he is in receipt of a pension or other like allowance in respect of service under the Crown.

If it shall be declared by any law for the time being in force in the Union that an office shall not be an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union for all or any of the purposes of these Our Instructions, these Instructions shall have effect accordingly as if such law were enacted therein.

Given at Our Court at Saint James’s, this 27th day of March, 1946, in the Tenth year of Our Reign.

Printed by His Majesty’s Stationery Office Press,
Drury Lane, W.C.2.

===== Page 205 =====
The following is a list of the names of the officers of the Order of the Holy Cross:

1. Sir William Cox, the Governor of the Order of the Holy Cross.
2. Sir William Cox, the Lieutenant Governor of the Order of the Holy Cross.
3. Sir William Cox, the Deputy Lieutenant Governor of the Order of the Holy Cross.

[POSSIBLY MISSING: Further names and officers due to repetitive and corrupted content.]

[NOTE: The text beyond item 3 repeats Sir William Cox as Deputy Lieutenant Governor multiple times, which is likely an OCR error or malformed duplication. The rest of the OCR text contains extensive corruption and non-sequitur fragments that do not form coherent content.]

[End of cleaned extract.]

===== Page 206 =====
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE
The 27th day of March, 1946

Present

THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL.

WHEREAS there was this day read at the Board a letter to the Lord President of the Council from the Right Honourable George Henry Hall, one of His Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, transmitting the Draft of Instructions to be given to the Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Malayan Union:

His Majesty, having taken the same into consideration, was pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council, to approve thereof, and to order, as it is hereby ordered, that the Right Honourable George Henry Hall, one of His Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, do prepare the said Instructions (which are hereunto annexed) for His Majesty's Royal Signature.

E. C. E. Leadbitter.

===== Page 207 =====
INSTRUCTIONS to Our Governor and Commander-in-Chief in and over the Malayan Union, or to any other officer for the time being administering the Government of the Malayan Union.

WHEREAS by the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946 (hereinafter called "the Order in Council") We have ordered that as from the appointed day there shall be a Governor and Commander-in-Chief (in the Order in Council and hereinafter called "the Governor") in and over the Malayan Union (in the Order in Council and hereinafter called "the Union"):

AND WHEREAS We have by the Order in Council empowered and commanded the Governor to do all things that belong to his said office in accordance with the Order in Council and such Commission as may be issued to him under Our Sign Manual and Signet and according to such Instructions as may from time to time be given to him under our Sign Manual and Signet, or through a Secretary of State, and such Orders in Council and other laws as may from time to time be in force in the Union:

AND WHEREAS We are minded to issue these Our Instructions under Our Sign Manual and Signet for the guidance of the Governor and any other Officer who may administer the Government of the Union:

NOW, THEREFORE, as from the appointed day, We do hereby direct and enjoin and declare Our Will and pleasure as follows:

1. The Governor may, whenever he thinks fit, require any person in the public service of the Union to take the Oath of Allegiance in the form prescribed by the Order in Council, together with such other oath or oaths as may from time to time be prescribed by any laws in force in the Union. The Governor is to administer such oaths or cause them to be administered by some public officer of the Union.

2. Whenever there is a subsisting appointment of a Deputy to the Governor under the Order in Council, these Instructions, so far as they apply to any matter or thing to be done, or any functions to be performed by such Deputy, shall be deemed to be addressed to and shall be observed by such Deputy.

3. The Executive Council of the Union shall consist of the Governor as Chairman, three ex officio members, that is to say the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General and the Financial Secretary, together with two members holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union (hereinafter called "Official Members") and five members, not holding such office (hereinafter called "Unofficial Members") to be appointed by Us or by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal of the Union in pursuance of instructions from Us through a Secretary of State.

===== Page 208 =====
4.—(1) Subject to the provisions of the Order in Council, every Official or Unofficial Member of the Executive Council shall hold his seat in Council during His Majesty’s pleasure, and, subject thereto, shall cease to be a Member at the end of three years from the date of the Instrument by which he is appointed, or such earlier date as may be provided by such Instrument; or previously if his seat shall become vacant under the provisions of these Instructions.

If any person is appointed to be a Temporary Member of the Council and his temporary appointment is immediately followed by his definitive appointment, the said period of three years shall be reckoned from the date of the Instrument by which he is appointed a Temporary Member.

(2) The seat of a Member of the Executive Council shall become vacant—

(a) upon his death; or

(b) if, being an Official Member, he shall cease to hold office of emolument under the Crown in the Union; or

(c) if, being an Unofficial Member, he shall be appointed permanently to any such office; or

(d) if he shall, by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor, resign his seat in the Executive Council; or

(e) if he shall be absent from the Union without written permission from the Governor:

Provided that a Member shall not be deemed to be absent from the Union for the purpose of this paragraph by reason only of absence in the Colony of Singapore for a period not exceeding one month.

(3) Any person vacating a seat as a Member of the Executive Council may, if qualified, be again appointed from time to time.

(4) If an Unofficial Member be appointed temporarily to any office of emolument under the Crown in the Union or to act in any such office, he shall not sit as an Unofficial Member of the Executive Council so long as he continues to hold or act in that office.

(5) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, suspend any Official or Unofficial Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the Executive Council. Every such suspension shall forthwith be reported by the Governor to Us through a Secretary of State and shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal, or by Us through a Secretary of State, or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the Executive Council.

(6) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Official or Unofficial Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council, and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared, in manner aforesaid, to be again capable of discharging his said functions.

5.—(1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council by reason of the fact that—

(a) an ex officio or Official Member is administering the Government of the Union; or

(b) one person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the three officers specified in clause 3 of these Instructions; or

===== Page 209 =====
(c) no person is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or

(d) a Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or

(e) the seat of a Member is vacant for any cause; or

(f) a Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in these Instructions, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or

(g) a Member is absent from the Union; or

(h) an Unofficial Member has been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union or to act in any such office;

a person may be appointed a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) The said person shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal and—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as ex officio or Official Members, shall be a person holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union; and

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as Unofficial Members, shall be a person not holding any such office.

(3) Every person so appointed shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of Members sitting in the Executive Council as ex officio or Official Members, an Official Member; and

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as Unofficial Members, an Unofficial Member; and, subject to the provisions of this clause, the provisions of clause 4 of these Instructions shall apply accordingly: Provided that, in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed shall not be regarded as an Official Member in computing the number of such Members for purposes of clause 3 of these Instructions.

(4) The Governor shall forthwith report every such temporary appointment to Us through a Secretary of State. Any such appointment may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be disallowed by Us through a Secretary of State or revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of disallowance by Us or of revocation by the Governor, or on supersession of the appointment by the definite appointment of a person to fill the vacancy, or when the vacancy shall otherwise cease to exist.

6. The Members of the Executive Council shall take precedence as We may specially assign and, in the absence of such assignment, as follows:

First, the ex officio Members in the order in which they are specified in clause 3 of these Instructions;

===== Page 210 =====
Secondly, the Official Members, according to the priority of their appointments as Official Members; or if appointed on the same day, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor;

Thirdly, the Official Members temporarily appointed under clause 5, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor;

Fourthly, the Unofficial Members in order according to the dates when they were first appointed to be Members, or temporary Members as the case may be, of the Executive Council, and, in the case of more than one appointment on the same day, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor or, in the absence of such assignment, according to the alphabetical order of their names:

Provided that, where a Member is reappointed to fill a vacancy caused by the termination of his own term of office, the date from which he has been continuously a Member of the Council (any interval between such termination and re-appointment being disregarded) shall be regarded as the date of his appointment for the purposes of this clause.

7.—(1) The Executive Council shall not be summoned except by the authority of the Governor.

(2) The Executive Council shall not be disqualified for the transaction of business by reason of any vacancy among the Members; but no business except that of adjournment shall be transacted if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than three Members present besides the Governor or Member presiding.

8. The Governor shall, so far as is practicable, attend and preside at all meetings of the Executive Council, and, in his absence, such member as the Governor may appoint or, in the absence of such Member or if no Member be so appointed, the senior Member of the Council present shall preside.

9. The Governor shall consult with the Executive Council in the execution of all powers and authorities conferred upon him, except in cases—

(a) which are of such a nature that, in his judgment, Our service would sustain material prejudice by consulting the Council thereupon; or

(b) in which the matters to be decided shall be too unimportant to require their advice; or

(c) in which the matters are too urgent to admit of their advice being given by the time within which it may be necessary for him to act.

In every case falling within paragraph (c) of this clause, he shall, as soon as practicable, communicate to the Council the measures which he shall have adopted with the reasons therefor.

10. The Governor shall alone be entitled to submit questions to the Executive Council; but if the Governor decline to submit any question to the Council when requested in writing by any Member so to do, it shall be competent to such Member to require that there be recorded upon the Minutes his written application together with the answer returned by the Governor thereto.

11. The Governor may act in opposition to the advice given to him by Members of the Executive Council, if in any case it shall in his judgment be right so to do; but in any such case he shall at the first convenient opportunity, fully report the matter to Us through a Secretary of State with the reasons for his action. In every such case it shall

Summoning and quorum.

Governor to preside.

Consultation with Executive Council.

Governor to propose questions.

Governor may act in opposition to Executive Council.

===== Page 211 =====
be competent to any Member of the Council to require that there be recorded upon the Minutes any advice or opinion he may give upon the question and the grounds therefor.

12. The Governor shall forthwith communicate to the Executive Council these Our Instructions and all such others as from time to time We may direct, or he shall find convenient for Our service to impart to them.

13. Minutes shall be kept of all the proceedings of the Executive Council and the Legislative Council. At every meeting of each Council the Minutes of the last preceding meeting shall be confirmed, with or without amendment as the case may require, before proceeding to the despatch of any other business. Twice in each year a full transcript of all Minutes of the Executive Council and of the Legislative Council for the preceding half-year shall be transmitted to Us through a Secretary of State.

14.—(1) In the making of laws the Governor and the Legislative Council shall observe, as far as practicable, the following Rules:

(a) All laws shall be styled "Ordinances" and the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor of the Malayan Union, with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council": Provided that in the case of:

(i) any law made by the Governor under section 85 of the Order in Council, the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor of the Malayan Union in accordance with the provisions of section 85 of the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946"; and

(ii) in the case of any law having effect by virtue of a declaration made by the Governor under section 29 of the Order in Council, the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor in accordance with the provisions of section 29 of the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946".

(b) All Ordinances shall be distinguished by titles, and shall be divided into successive sections consecutively numbered, and to every section there shall be annexed in the margin a short indication of its contents. The Ordinances enacted in each year shall be distinguished by consecutive numbers, commencing in each year with the number one.

(c) Each different matter shall be provided for by a different Ordinance without inter-mixing in one and the same Ordinance such things as have no proper relation to each other. No provision shall be inserted in any Ordinance which shall be foreign to what the title of such Ordinance imports; and no permanent provision shall be included in any temporary Ordinance.

(2) In the making of laws Resident Commissioners and State Councils and Settlement Councils shall observe, as far as practicable, the following Rules:

(a) All laws shall be styled "Enactments" and the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor with the advice and consent of the State Council"; or "enacted by the Governor with the advice and consent of the Settlement Council", as the case may be.

===== Page 212 =====
(b) The provisions of sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) of paragraph (1) of this clause shall apply to Enactments of State Councils and Settlement Councils.

(3) In the making of laws, Sultans in Sultan’s Advisory Councils shall conform, as nearly as may be, to any Instructions given by the Governor under the Public Seal in that behalf.

15.—(1) Save as hereinafter mentioned, the Governor shall not, without having previously obtained instructions through a Secretary of State, assent to any Bill passed by the Legislative Council, which falls within any of the following classes, unless such Bill contains a clause suspending the operation thereof until the signification in the Union of Our pleasure thereon, that is to say:

(1) Any Bill for the divorce of married persons;
(2) Any Bill whereby any grant of land or money, or other donation or gratuity, may be made to himself;
(3) Any Bill affecting the currency of the Union, or relating to the issue of bank notes;
(4) Any Bill establishing any Banking Association, or amending or altering the constitution, powers, or privileges of any Banking Association;
(5) Any Bill imposing differential duties;
(6) Any Bill the provisions of which shall appear to him to be inconsistent with obligations imposed upon Us by Treaty;
(7) Any Bill interfering with the discipline or control of Our Forces by land or sea or air;
(8) Any Bill relating to questions of defence or any matter affecting naval, military, or air forces or the control of aerial navigation or aircraft or the transport or means of communication of naval, military or air forces;
(9) Any Bill of any extraordinary nature and importance whereby Our prerogative, or the rights and property of Our subjects not residing in the Union, or the trade, transport or communications of any part of Our dominions, may be prejudiced;
(10) Any Bill containing any provision prohibiting, regulating or licensing the import or export of goods, or imposing or varying any customs, excise or export duty, tariff, levy or cess, or allowing any discount, rebate or drawback from any such duty, tariff, levy, or cess, or containing any other provision (whether of a similar nature to the foregoing or not), whereby the trade or commerce of the Colony of Singapore might be prejudicially affected, unless the Governor of the said Colony, having previously been informed of the provision, shall have signified that he does not object thereto;
(11) Any Bill whereby persons of any racial, religious or other community are made liable to any disabilities or restrictions to which persons of other such communities are not also subjected or made liable, or are granted advantages not extended to persons of other such communities;
(12) Any Bill the principle of which has evoked serious opposition by any racial, religious, or other community and which in the opinion of the Governor is likely to involve oppression or unfairness to any such community;
(13) Any Bill containing provisions to which Our assent has been once refused, or which have been disallowed by Us:

===== Page 213 =====
Provided that the Governor may assent in Our name to any Bill falling within any of the classes described in this sub-clause (except a Bill falling within any class mentioned in paragraph (6) or (10) of this sub-clause), if he shall have satisfied himself that an urgent necessity exists requiring that such Bill be brought into immediate operation but, in any such case, he shall at the earliest opportunity, transmit to Us any Bill to which he shall have assented, together with his reasons for so assenting.

(2) The Governor shall not, without previously having obtained instructions from a Secretary of State, permit to be introduced or put into operation by subordinate legislation or executive action any such provision as is mentioned in paragraph (10) of sub-clause (1) of this clause, unless the Governor of the Colony of Singapore, having previously been informed of the provision, shall have signified that he does not object thereto.

Private Bills.

16.—(1) Every Bill (not being a Government measure) intended to affect or benefit some particular person, association, or corporate body, shall contain a clause saving the right of Us, Our Heirs and Successors, all bodies politic and corporate, and all others, except such as are mentioned in the Bill and those claiming by, from, or under them.

(2) No such Bill shall be introduced into the Legislative Council until due notice has been given by not less than three successive publications of the Bill in the Gazette of the Union, and the Governor shall not assent thereto in Our Name unless it has been so published. A certificate under the hand of the Governor signifying that such publication has been made shall be transmitted to Us with the Bill or Ordinance.

Laws made by the Governor.

17. The provisions of clauses 15 and 16 shall apply mutatis mutandis to any law made by the Governor under section 85 of the Order in Council as they apply to a Bill requiring the Assent of the Governor.

18. When any Ordinance of the Legislative Council or Enactment of a State or Settlement Council shall have been enacted, the Governor shall forthwith transmit to Us, through a Secretary of State, for the signification of Our pleasure, a transcript in duplicate of the Ordinance or Enactment duly authenticated under the Public Seal of the Union and by his own signature, together with an explanation of the reasons and occasion for the enactment of the Ordinance or Enactment.

Laws to be published.

19. As soon as practicable after the commencement of each year, the Governor shall cause a complete collection of all Ordinances and Enactments enacted during the preceding year to be published for general information.

Appointments.

20.—(1) Every appointment by the Governor of any person to any office or employment shall, unless otherwise provided by law, be expressed to be during pleasure only.

(2) Save with the consent of the Governor, no person shall be appointed to public office in the Union who is not a Malayan Union citizen.

Regulations of power of pardon in capital cases.

21.—(1) Whenever any offender shall have been condemned by sentence of any civil Court in the Union to suffer death, the Governor shall call upon the Judge who presided at the trial to make to him a written report of the case of such offender, and shall cause such report to be taken into consideration at a meeting of the Executive Council, and he may cause the said Judge to be specially summoned to attend at such meeting and to produce his notes thereat. The Governor shall not pardon or reprieve any such offender unless it shall appear to

===== Page 214 =====
him expedient so to do, upon receiving the advice of the Executive Council thereon; but in all such cases he is to decide either to extend or to withhold a pardon or reprieve, according to his own deliberate judgment, whether the Members of the Executive Council concur therein or otherwise, entering nevertheless, in the Minutes of the Executive Council, his reasons at length in case he should decide any such question in opposition to the judgment of the majority of the Members thereof.

(2) Until the Executive Council shall be constituted, references in this clause to the Executive Council shall be construed as references to the Advisory Council.

22. The Governor shall forward to Us, each year, through a Secretary of State, the annual book of returns commonly called the Blue Book, relating to Revenue and Expenditure, Public Works, Legislation, Civil Establishments, Pensions, Population, Schools, Course of Exchange, Imports and Exports, Agricultural Produce, Manufactures, and other matters in the said Blue Book more particularly specified with reference to the state and condition of the Union.

23. Except in circumstances in which he is not regarded as absent from the Union for the purposes of the Order in Council, the Governor shall not quit the Union without having first obtained leave from Us for so doing through a Secretary of State.

24.—(1) In these Our Instructions, unless inconsistent with the context:

“the appointed day” has the same meaning as in the Order in Council;

“the Executive Council”, “the Legislative Council” and “the Advisory Council” mean respectively the Executive Council, the Legislative Council and the Advisory Council of the Union constituted under and by virtue of the Order in Council;

“the Governor” includes every person for the time being administering the Government of the Union;

“Malayan Union citizen” means a citizen of the Union within the meaning of any Order in Council providing for Malayan Union citizenship;

“State Councils”, “Settlement Councils” and “Sultan’s Advisory Councils” mean respectively the State Councils, Settlement Councils and Sultan’s Advisory Councils constituted under and by virtue of the Order in Council; and

“Secretary of State” means one of Our Principal Secretaries of State.

(2) For the purposes of these Our Instructions, a person shall not be deemed to hold an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union by reason only that he is in receipt of a pension or other like allowance in respect of service under the Crown.

If it shall be declared by any law for the time being in force in the Union that an office shall not be an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union for all or any of the purposes of these Our Instructions, these Instructions shall have effect accordingly as if such law were enacted therein.

Given at Our Court at Saint James’s, this 27th day of March, 1946, in the Tenth year of Our Reign.

Printed by His Majesty’s Stationery Office Press,
Drury Lane, W.C.2.

===== Page 215 =====
The question of the future of the Orbison Commission is a serious one, and the Commission is considering the possibility of extending its term.

===== Page 216 =====
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE
The 27th day of March, 1946

Present
THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL.

WHEREAS by the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890, it was, amongst other things, enacted that it should be lawful for His Majesty the King to hold, exercise and enjoy any jurisdiction which His Majesty then had or might at any time thereafter have within a foreign country in the same and as ample a manner as if His Majesty had acquired that jurisdiction by the cession or conquest of territory:

AND WHEREAS His Majesty has full power and jurisdiction within the Malay States of Johore, Kedah, Kelantan, Negri Sembilan, Pahang, Perak, Perlis, Selangor and Trengganu (hereinafter referred to together as "the Malay States"):

AND WHEREAS, by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Act, 1946 (hereinafter called "the Act of 1946") it is, amongst other things, enacted that on such day as His Majesty may by Order in Council appoint (in that Act and in this Order referred to as "the appointed day") the Straits Settlements Act, 1866, shall be repealed and the Straits Settlements, that is to say the settlements and dependencies mentioned in the Schedule to the Act of 1946 (which comprise, among other settlements and dependencies, the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang (including province Wellesley) and the dependencies of the said settlements) shall cease to be a single colony and that on and after the appointed day each of the said settlements and dependencies shall be divided into such territories as His Majesty may by Order in Council direct and that those territories shall be governed either singly or in conjunction with such other territories (whether falling within the Schedule to the Act of 1946 or not) as may be specified in such Order and that such Order in Council may contain such other and consequential provisions as are contained in this Order:

AND WHEREAS by the Act of 1946 it is further enacted that the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945, shall apply in relation to each of the territories into which the said Settlements and dependencies are divided by Order under this Act as if it were a British settlement as so defined:

AND WHEREAS by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Order in Council, 1946, it is provided that the appointed day shall be the first day of April, 1946:

AND WHEREAS it is expedient to make provision for the administration, on and after the appointed day, of the Malay States in conjunction with the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang and the dependencies of the said Settlements:

===== Page 217 =====
NOW THEREFORE, His Majesty, by virtue and in exercise of the powers by the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890, and by the Act of 1946 and the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945, or otherwise in His Majesty vested, is pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council to order, and it is hereby ordered, as follows:

PART I.

PRELIMINARY.

1.—(1) This Order may be cited as the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946, and, except as to section 13 and Parts IV, V, VI, VII and VIII, shall come into operation on the appointed day.

(2) Section 13 and Parts IV, V, VI, VII and VIII of this Order shall come into operation on such day, or days respectively, within a period of six months from the appointed day, as may be fixed by the Governor by proclamation in the Gazette and the Governor may fix different days for different purposes and different provisions of that section and those Parts:

Provided that the said period of six months may be extended by the Governor, by Proclamation in the Gazette, for such further period as may be approved by a Secretary of State.

2.—(1) In this Order, unless the context otherwise requires—

“the Chief Justice” means the Chief Justice of the Union;

“the existing laws” means the common law, doctrines of equity and all Acts of Parliament, Orders in Council, Enactments of the Legislature of any Malay State, Ordinances of the Legislature of the Colony of the Straits Settlements, Proclamations issued by the High Commissioner of the Malay States or by the Ruler of any of the Malay States, or by the Governor of the Straits Settlements or by, or under the authority of, the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia (other than the Proclamations establishing the British Military Administration and delegating powers thereunder) and all Rules, Regulations and By-laws made thereunder and all other enactments and instruments having the force of law in the Union or in any part thereof immediately prior to the appointed day, whether the same were administered by the British Military Administration or not;

“the Gazette” means the official Gazette of the Union;

“the Governor” means the Governor and Commander-in-Chief for the time being of the Union and includes any officer for the time being administering the Government thereof, and, to the extent that a Deputy to the Governor is authorised to act, that Deputy;

“the Governor in Council” means the Governor acting after consultation with, but not necessarily in accordance with the advice of, the Executive Council of the Union nor necessarily in such Council assembled; and, until Section 13 of this Order is in operation, means the Governor;

“Malayan Union citizen” means a citizen of the Union within the meaning of any Order in Council or other enactment providing for Malayan Union Citizenship;

“meeting” means any sitting or sittings of a Council constituted under this Order commencing when the Council first meets after being

===== Page 218 =====
"summoned at any time and terminating when the Council is adjourned sine die or at the conclusion of a session without adjournment;"

"prescribed" means prescribed by any law made under this Order or by regulation made by the Governor under section 96;

"property" includes all property movable or immovable and all estates, interests, easements and rights, whether equitable or legal, in, to or out of property, and things in action and rights to revenue, taxes, duties and other dues; and "vested" in relation to property includes rights to property which are future or contingent and rights in reversion and remainder;

"the Public Seal" means the public seal of the Union and includes the official stamp mentioned in section 9 of this Order;

"session" means the sittings of any Council constituted under this Order commencing when the Council first meets after being so constituted, or after its prorogation or dissolution at any time, and terminating when the Council is prorogued or is dissolved without having been prorogued;

"the settlements" means the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang;

"the Settlement of Malacca" means the Town and Fort and Province of Malacca and all islands and places heretofore known or administered as part of the Settlement of Malacca, and the territorial waters adjacent thereto;

"the settlement of Penang" means Georgetown and the Island of Penang (or Prince of Wales' Island) Province Wellesley and all islands and places heretofore known or administered as part of the Settlement of Penang, and the territorial waters adjacent thereto;

"Sultan" includes the Raja of Perlis and the Yang di peruan Besar of Negri Sembilan, and, during a Regency in any of the Malay States, means the Regent, or if there be a Council of Regency, the Member of that Council to whom is assigned the function in connection with which the term is used;

"the Supreme Court" means the Supreme Court of the Union;

"the Union" means the Malayan Union constituted by section 3 of this Order.

(2) For the purposes of this Order, when reference is made to a Sultan of any of the Malay States or to any public officer by the term designating his office, such reference means the Sultan for the time being of the State concerned, or the officer for the time being lawfully discharging the functions of that office, as the case may be.

(3) For the purposes of this Order, a person shall not be deemed to hold an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union by reason only that he is in receipt of a pension or other like allowance in respect of service under the Crown.

If it shall be declared by any law for the time being in force in the Union that an office shall not be an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union for all or any of the purposes of this Order, this Order shall have effect accordingly as if that law were enacted herein.

(4) The Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply for the interpretation of this Order as it applies for the interpretation of an Act of Parliament.

===== Page 219 =====
3. There shall be established a Union comprising the Malay States and the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang, to be governed and administered together and to be known as the Malayan Union.

PART II.

THE GOVERNOR AND EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.

Governor.

4. There shall be a Governor and Commander-in-Chief (hereinafter called "the Governor") in and over the Union, and appointments to the said office shall be made by Commission under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet.

Powers of Governor.

5. The Governor is hereby empowered and commanded to do all things that belong to his said office in accordance with this Order and such Commission as may be issued to him under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet and according to such Instructions as may from time to time be given to him under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet, or through a Secretary of State, and such Orders in Council and other laws as may from time to time be in force in the Union.

Publication of Governor's Commission and taking of oaths.

6. Every person appointed to fill the office of Governor shall, before entering on any of the duties of his office, cause the Commission appointing him to be Governor to be read and published at the seat of Government, in the presence of the Chief Justice or, in his absence, of some other Judge of the Supreme Court, and (if section 13 of this Order is in force) of such Members of the Executive Council of the Union as can conveniently attend; and shall take before them the Oath of Allegiance and the Oath for the due execution of the office of Governor in the forms set out in the First Schedule to this Order, which Oaths the Chief Justice or such other Judge as aforesaid shall administer.

Succession to Government.

7. (1) Whenever the office of Governor becomes vacant, or the Governor is absent from the Union, or the Governor is from any cause prevented from, or incapable of, performing the duties of his office, then such person as His Majesty may appoint under His Sign Manual and Signet or if there is no such person in the Union so appointed and capable of discharging the duties of administration, the senior Member of the Executive Council then in the Union and so capable, shall during His Majesty's pleasure, administer the Government of the Union, first taking, in manner in this Order prescribed, the oaths directed by this Order to be taken by the Governor. Thereupon such person or Member shall, subject, if he is so appointed as aforesaid, to the terms of his appointment, do, during His Majesty's pleasure, all things that belong to the Office of Governor as provided in this Order:

Provided that the Governor or any other person or Member as aforesaid shall not be regarded as absent from the Union or prevented from or incapable of performing the duties of his office for the purposes of this Order during his passage from one part of the Union to another or during a visit to the Colony of Singapore or when there is a subsisting appointment of a Deputy under the next succeeding section of this Order.

(2) Any such person as aforesaid shall not continue to administer the Government after the Governor or some other person having a prior right to administer the same has notified him that he is about to assume or resume the administration.

===== Page 220 =====
8.—(1) Whenever the Governor has occasion to be absent from the seat of Government but not from the Union, or to be absent from the Union for a period which he has reason to believe will be of short duration, or whenever by reason of illness which he has reason to believe will be of short duration he considers it desirable so to do, he may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint any person in the Union to be his Deputy during such absence or illness, and in that capacity to exercise and perform for and on behalf of the Governor during such absence or illness all such functions of the Governor as shall be specified in such Instrument.

(2) By the appointment of a Deputy as aforesaid the power and authority of the Governor shall not be abridged, altered, or in any way affected otherwise than as His Majesty may at any time hereafter think proper to direct, and every such Deputy shall conform to and observe all such instructions as the Governor shall from time to time address to him for his guidance.

(3) Any appointment under this section may at any time be revoked by the Governor or by a Secretary of State and, in case of absence as aforesaid, shall cease and determine upon the return of the Governor to the seat of Government or to the Union, as the case may be.

9. The Governor shall keep and use the Public Seal of the Union for sealing all things whatsoever that shall pass the said Seal. Until a Public Seal shall be provided for the Union, an official stamp bearing the inscription "Malayan Union. Public Seal" may be used as the Public Seal.

10. Subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force in the Union and of any Instructions from time to time given to the Governor under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, the Governor, in His Majesty's name and on His Majesty's behalf, may make and execute, under the Public Seal, grants and dispositions of any lands within the Union which may be lawfully granted or disposed of by His Majesty.

11. Subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force in the Union and to any Instructions from time to time given to him by His Majesty through a Secretary of State, the Governor for cause shown to his satisfaction, may dismiss or suspend from the exercise of his office any person holding any public office within the Union, or may take such other disciplinary action as may seem to him desirable.

12. When any offence has been committed for which the offender may be tried within the Union, the Governor may, as he shall see occasion, in His Majesty's name and on His Majesty's behalf, grant a pardon to any accomplice in such offence who shall give such information as shall lead to the conviction of the principal offender, or any one of such offenders if more than one; and further may grant to any offender convicted of any such offence in any Court within the Union, a pardon, either free or subject to lawful conditions, or any respite, either indefinite or for such period as the Governor may think fit, of the execution of any sentence passed on such offender, and may remit the whole or any part of such sentence or of any penalties or forfeitures otherwise due to His Majesty.

13. There shall be an Executive Council for the Union and the said Council shall consist of such persons as His Majesty shall direct by

===== Page 221 =====
Instructions under His Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, and all such persons shall hold their places in the Executive Council during His Majesty’s pleasure and, subject thereto, for such period and upon such conditions as may be specified in any such Instructions.

PART III.

COURTS.

Supreme Court.

14.—(1) There shall be in and for the Union a Court of unlimited civil and criminal jurisdiction to be called the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court shall be a Court of Record and may consist of a High Court and a Court of Appeal.

(2) There shall be a Chief Justice appointed by His Majesty by Letters Patent under the Great Seal of the Realm, or by the Governor by Letters Patent under the Public Seal in accordance with such instructions as he may receive from His Majesty through a Secretary of State, and as many Judges of the Supreme Court, appointed similarly or in manner prescribed, as may from time to time be required. The Chief Justice and Judges of the Supreme Court shall hold office during His Majesty’s pleasure.

(3) The constitution, powers and procedure of the Supreme Court and provisions relating to appeals therefrom to His Majesty in Council and provisions relating to the qualifications, order of precedence, duties and powers of Judges, and appointment of temporary Judges, may, subject to the provisions of this Order, be prescribed by laws made under this Order.

Subordinate Courts.

15.—(1) Courts subordinate to the Supreme Court and Courts of special jurisdiction may be constituted by laws made under this Order.

(2) Provision may be made by such laws for the hearing and determining of appeals from any such Court by the Supreme Court or otherwise.

PART IV.

LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.

Establishment of Legislative Council.

16.—(1) There shall be a Legislative Council in and for the Union constituted in accordance with the provisions of this Order.

(2) The Council shall consist of the Governor as President, three ex officio Members, and such Official Members, not exceeding eighteen and such Unofficial Members, not exceeding twenty-one, as His Majesty shall direct by Instructions under His Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State.

Ex officio Members.

17. The ex officio Members shall be the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General and the Financial Secretary.

Official Members.

18. The Official Members shall be persons holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, and shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of His Majesty’s instructions through a Secretary of State.

Unofficial Members.

19. The Unofficial Members shall be Malayan Union citizens of the age of twenty-one years or upwards not holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, who, the Governor is satisfied, are able

===== Page 222 =====
To speak and (unless incapacitated by blindness or other physical cause) to read and write the English language with a degree of proficiency sufficient to enable them to take an active part in the proceedings of the Council. Unofficial Members shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of His Majesty's Instructions through a Secretary of State:

Provided that the Governor may, for cause shown to his satisfaction, appoint a British subject who is not a Malayan Union citizen to be an Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council.

20. No person shall be capable of being appointed an Official or Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council or, having been appointed, shall sit and vote therein, who at the time of appointment—

(1) is a person found or declared to be of unsound mind under any law in force in the Union; or

(2) has, in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection, been sentenced to death or to imprisonment (by whatever name called) for a term exceeding six months and has not either suffered the punishment to which he was sentenced or such other punishment as may by competent authority have been substituted therefor or received a free pardon; or

(3) is an undischarged bankrupt; or

(4) is a party to, or a member of a firm or a director or manager of a company which is a party to, any subsisting contract with the Government of the Union, for or on account of the public service, or is otherwise to his knowledge interested in any such contract, and shall not have disclosed to the Governor the nature of such contract and his interest, or the interest of any such firm or company, therein.

21.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, every Official Member or Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council shall hold his seat in the Legislative Council during His Majesty's pleasure and, subject thereto, shall cease to be a Member at the end of three years from the date of the Instrument by which he is appointed, or at such earlier date as may be provided by such Instrument, or previously if his seat shall become vacant under the provisions of this Order.

(2) If a person is appointed a Temporary Member of the Legislative Council in accordance with the provisions of Section 22 of this Order and such appointment is immediately followed by his definitive appointment as a Member, the said period of three years shall be reckoned from the date of his appointment as a Temporary Member.

(3) The seat of a Member of the Legislative Council (other than an ex officio Member) shall become vacant—

(a) upon his death; or

(b) if he shall, without the leave of the Governor, be absent from two consecutive meetings of the Council; or

(c) if he shall cease to be a Malayan Union citizen, or, if appointed under the proviso to section 19, a British subject, or shall take any oath, or make any declaration or acknowledgment of allegiance, obedience or adherence to any foreign Power or State; or shall do, concur in or adopt any act done with the intention that he shall become a subject or citizen of any foreign Power or State; or

===== Page 223 =====
(d) if he shall be declared a bankrupt under any law in force in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection; or

(e) if in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection, he shall be sentenced to death, or imprisonment, by whatever name called, for a term exceeding six months; or

(f) if he shall be found or declared to be of unsound mind under any law in force in the Union; or

(g) if he shall, by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor resign his seat in the Council; or

(h) if, being an Official Member, he shall cease to hold office of emolument under the Crown in the Union; or

(i) if, being an Unofficial Member, he shall be appointed permanently to any such office; or

(j) if, being an Unofficial Member, he shall, without the approval of the Governor, become a party to, or if any firm in which he is a partner, or any company of which he is a director or manager, shall become a party to, or if he shall be otherwise interested in, any contract with the Government of the Union for or on account of the public service and shall not, before the making of the contract, have disclosed to the Governor the nature of such contract and his interest or the interest of any such firm or company therein.

(4) If an Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council shall be appointed temporarily to any office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, or shall be appointed to act in any such office, he shall not sit or vote in the Legislative Council so long as he continues to hold or to act in that office.

(5) Any person vacating a seat as a Member of the Legislative Council, may, if qualified, be again appointed as a Member from time to time.

(6) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Official Member or Unofficial Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council, and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared, in manner aforesaid, to be again capable of discharging his said functions.

(7) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, suspend any Official Member or Unofficial Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the Council. Every such suspension shall forthwith be reported by the Governor to His Majesty through a Secretary of State, and shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal or by His Majesty through a Secretary of State, or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the Legislative Council.

(8) All questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain an Official or Unofficial Member shall be referred to and decided by the Governor in Council whose decision shall be final and shall not be called in question in any Court in the Union.

22.—(1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Legislative Council as ex officio Members, or Official Members or Unofficial Members, by reason of the fact that—

(a) an ex officio Member is administering the Government of the Union; or

===== Page 224 =====
(b) One person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the three officers specified in section 17 of this Order; or
(c) No person is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or
(d) An Official Member is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or
(e) The seat of an Official or Unofficial Member is vacant for any cause other than a dissolution of the Council; or
(f) An Official or Unofficial Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in this Order, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or
(g) An Official or Unofficial Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or
(h) A Member is absent from the Union; or
(i) An Unofficial Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of his having been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union or to act in any such office;

The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint a person to be a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) If the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Official Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as an Official Member; and if the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Unofficial Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as an Unofficial Member.

(3) Every person appointed to be a Temporary Member under this section shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—

(a) In the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Official Members, an Official Member;

(b) In the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Unofficial Members, an Unofficial Member;

And, subject to the provisions of this section, the provisions of section 21 of this Order shall apply accordingly:

Provided that, in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed shall not be regarded as an Official Member in computing the number of such Members for the purposes of sub-section (2) of section 16 of this Order.

(4) The Governor shall forthwith report every such temporary appointment to His Majesty through a Secretary of State. Any such appointment may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be disallowed by His Majesty through a Secretary of State or revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment under this section shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of disallowance by His Majesty or of revocation by the Governor, or on supersession of the appointment by the definitive appointment of a person to fill the vacancy, or when the vacancy shall otherwise cease to exist.

===== Page 225 =====
23. The Governor may summon to any meeting of the Legislative Council any person holding public office under the Crown in the Union, notwithstanding that such person may not be a Member of the Council, when, in the opinion of the Governor, the business before the Council renders the presence of such person desirable. Any person so summoned shall be entitled to take part in the proceedings of the Council relating to the business in respect of which he is summoned as if he were a Member of the Council, except that he shall not have the right to vote in the Council.

Governor to preside.

24. The Governor, if present, shall preside at meetings of the Council, and, in his absence, such Member as the Governor may in writing appoint or, in the absence of such Member, or if no Member be so appointed, the senior Member of Council actually present shall preside.

Quorum.

25. No business except that of adjournment shall be transacted by the Council if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than one quarter of the Members present besides the Governor or other Member presiding.

Precedence of Members.

26. After the Governor, the Members of the Council shall take precedence as His Majesty may specially assign or, if precedence be not so assigned, as follows:

First, the ex officio Members in the order in which they are mentioned in section 17 of this Order;

Secondly, the Official Members appointed under section 18 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments as such, or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Thirdly, Official Members temporarily appointed under section 22 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Fourthly, the Unofficial Members appointed under section 19 of this Order according to the priority of their appointments as such, or if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Fifthly, the Unofficial Members temporarily appointed under section 22 of this Order according to the priority of their appointments or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor:

Provided that when a Member is re-appointed to fill a vacancy caused by the termination of his own term of office the date from which he has been continuously a Member of the Council (any interval between such termination and re-appointment being disregarded) shall be regarded as the date of his appointment for the purposes of this section.

Part V.

LEGISLATION AND PROCEDURE IN LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.

Power to make laws.

27. Subject to the provisions of this Order, it shall be lawful for the Governor, with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council, to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Union.

Voting.

28. Save as otherwise provided in this Order, all questions proposed for decision in the Council shall be determined by a majority of the

===== Page 226 =====
Votes of the Members present and voting. The Governor shall not have an original vote, but, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, he shall have a casting vote. In the absence of the Governor, the Member presiding shall have an original vote and also, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, a casting vote.

29.—(1) If the Governor shall consider that it is expedient in the interests of public order, public faith or good government that any Bill introduced, or any motion, proposed for decision in the Council shall have effect, then if the Council fail to pass such a Bill or motion, within such time and in such form as the Governor may think reasonable and expedient, the Governor, at any time in his discretion, may, notwithstanding any provisions of this Order or of any Standing Rules or Orders of the Council, declare that such Bill or motion shall have effect as if it had been passed by the Council, either in the form in which it was so introduced or proposed or with such amendments as the Governor shall think fit which have been moved or proposed in the Council or in any Committee thereof; and thereupon the said Bill or motion shall have effect as if it had been so passed, and, in the case of any such Bill, the provisions of this Order relating to assent to Bills and disallowance of laws shall apply accordingly.

(2) In this section the expressions "public order, public faith or good government" shall, without prejudice to their generality, include the following:

(a) the responsibility of the Union as a component part of the British Empire including foreign relations and relations with other parts of the British Empire;

(b) all questions relating to defence, including provision, construction, maintenance and use of defence works, areas and communications;

(c) subjects upon which, in the opinion of the Governor or of a Secretary of State, it is necessary to secure uniformity in legislation between the Union and the Colony of Singapore; and

(d) all matters pertaining to the creation or abolition of any public office and to the appointment, salary or other conditions of service of any public officer or officers.

(3) The Governor shall forthwith report to a Secretary of State every case in which he shall make any such declaration as is mentioned in sub-section (1) of this section and the reason therefor.

(4) If any Member of the Legislative Council objects to any declaration made under this section, he may, within seven days of the making thereof, submit to the Governor a statement in writing of his reasons for so objecting, and a copy of such statement shall, if furnished by such Member, be forwarded by the Governor as soon as practicable to a Secretary of State.

(5) Any such declaration other than a declaration relating to a Bill, may be revoked by a Secretary of State, and the Governor shall notify such revocation in the Gazette; and from the date of such notification any motion which shall have had effect by virtue of the declaration revoked shall cease to have effect, and the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 38 of the Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply to such revocation as they apply to the repeal of an Act of Parliament.

===== Page 227 =====
30.—(1) No Bill shall become a law until either the Governor shall assent thereto in His Majesty’s name and on His Majesty’s behalf, and shall sign the same in token of assent, or His Majesty shall give his assent thereto through a Secretary of State.

(2) When a Bill is presented to the Governor for his assent, he shall, according to his discretion, but subject to the provisions of this Order and of any Instructions addressed to him under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, declare that he assents or refuses to assent thereto, or that he reserves the Bill for the signification of His Majesty’s pleasure.

(3) A law assented to by the Governor shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the date of such publication, or, if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment (including any enactment in force at the commencement of this Order) that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

(4) A Bill reserved for the signification of His Majesty’s pleasure shall become a law so soon as His Majesty shall have given His assent thereto, through a Secretary of State, and the Governor shall have signified such assent by Proclamation in the Gazette. Every such law shall come into operation on the date of such Proclamation or, if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment (including any enactment in force at the commencement of this Order) that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

31.—(1) Any law to which the Governor shall have given his assent may be disallowed by His Majesty through a Secretary of State.

(2) Whenever any law has been disallowed by His Majesty, the Governor shall cause notice of such disallowance to be published in the Gazette.

(3) Every law so disallowed shall cease to have effect as soon as notice of such disallowance shall be published as aforesaid. Thereafter any enactment repealed or amended by such law shall have effect as if such law had not been made, but, save as aforesaid, the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 38 of the Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply to such disallowance as they apply to the repeal of an Act of Parliament.

32. Subject to the provisions of this Order, the Governor and the Legislative Council shall, in the transaction of business and the passing of laws, conform as nearly as may be to the directions contained in any Instructions under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet which may from time to time be addressed to the Governor in that behalf.

33. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of such Instructions as aforesaid, the Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its own proceedings and the conduct of business and for the passing, intitulating and numbering of Bills, and for the presentation thereof to the Governor for his assent, but no such Rules or Orders shall have effect unless and until they have been approved by the Governor.

34. The official language of the Council shall be English.

35. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council, any Member may introduce any Bill or

===== Page 228 =====
Propose any motion for debate in, or may present any petition to, the Council, and the same shall be debated and disposed of according to the Standing Rules and Orders:

Provided that, except with the recommendation or consent of the Governor signified thereto, the Council shall not proceed upon any Bill, amendment, motion or petition, which, in the opinion of the Governor or of the presiding Member, would—

(a) dispose of, or charge any public revenue or public funds of the Union, or revoke or alter any disposition thereof or charge thereon, or impose, alter, or repeal any rate, tax or duty; or

(b) suspend the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council or any of them.

36.—(1) The sessions of the Legislative Council shall be held at such times and places as the Governor shall from time to time by Proclamation appoint.

(2) There shall be a session of the Council once at least in every year, so that a period of twelve months shall not intervene between the last sitting in one Session and the first sitting in the next Session.

37. The Governor may at any time, by Proclamation, prorogue the Legislative Council.

PART VI.

THE COUNCIL OF SULTANS.

38. There shall be established for the Union a Council to be called the Council of Sultans.

39.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order the Council of Sultans shall consist of the Governor as President and the following Members:

(1) His Highness the Sultan of Johore;
(2) His Highness the Sultan of Pahang;
(3) His Highness the Yang di per Tuan Besar of Negri Sembilan;
(4) His Highness the Sultan of Perak;
(5) His Highness the Sultan of Selangor;
(6) His Highness the Sultan of Kedah;
(7) His Highness the Raja of Perlis;
(8) His Highness the Sultan of Kelantan;
(9) His Highness the Sultan of Trengganu;
(10) The Chief Secretary;
(11) The Attorney-General; and
(12) The Financial Secretary.

(2) During a Regency in any of the Malay States, the Regent or, if there be a Council of Regency, such Member of that Council as the Council of Regency may assign, shall be a Member of the Council of Sultans in the place of the Sultan of the State.

40.—(1) The functions of the Council of Sultans shall be—

(a) to consider legislation, relating solely to matters of Muhammadan religion, which the Sultan’s Advisory Council in any State has approved for enactment; and

===== Page 229 =====
(b) to advise the Governor on any matter which he may refer to the Council for discussion, and on any matter which any Sultan may propose for discussion.

(2) Subject as hereinafter provided, every Bill relating solely to matters of Muhammadan religion approved by a Sultan’s Advisory Council in any State under the provisions of section 75 of this Order, shall, after submission to the Council of Sultans, be referred by that Council to a Committee (in this section called “the Muhammadan Legislation Committee”) consisting of the Muhammadan Members of the Council of Sultans under the chairmanship of the senior Sultan present. The Muhammadan Legislation Committee shall consider the Bill and shall report approval or disapproval thereof to the Council of Sultans, and, in case of disapproval, shall record the grounds of disapproval. Any such Bill which is approved by the Muhammadan Legislation Committee shall be approved by the Council of Sultans:

Provided that no Bill shall be received by the Council of Sultans or be referred to, or considered by the Muhammadan Legislation Committee, unless it be accompanied by a certificate from the Attorney-General certifying that, in his opinion, the Bill complies with sub-section (1) of section 75 of this Order, and does not conflict with any law in force in the State concerned other than a law, relating solely to matters of Muhammadan religion, which is to be repealed or modified by the Bill.

(3) A Bill approved by the Council of Sultans shall be returned by the Clerk of that Council to the Clerk of the Sultan’s Advisory Council concerned with an intimation of such approval. Thereafter, the Sultan of the State concerned may assent thereto, and, upon such assent, the law shall come into operation as provided in section 75 of this Order.

(4) Any Bill disapproved by the Muhammadan Legislation Committee shall be disapproved by the Council of Sultans and shall be returned by the Clerk of that Council to the Clerk of the Sultan’s Advisory Council concerned, together with the grounds of disapproval. Any Bill so returned may be altered by the Sultan’s Advisory Council concerned and submitted again for consideration by the Council of Sultans.

(5) In this section the expression “senior Sultan” means the Sultan having precedence under section 42 of this Order.

Summoning of persons not Members.

41. The Governor may summon to any meeting of the Council of Sultans any person holding public office under the Crown in the Union, notwithstanding that such person may not be a member of the Council, when, in the opinion of the Governor, the business before the Council renders the presence of such person desirable. Any person so summoned shall not have the right to vote in the Council.

Precedence.

42. After the Governor the Members of the Council of Sultans shall take precedence among themselves as follows—
First, the Sultans in order according to the dates of their recognition by His Majesty as Sultans of their respective States;
Second, Regents in order according to the dates of their appointments as Regents; and
Third, the Chief Secretary, the Attorney-General and the Financial Secretary in that order.

Quorum.

43. No business except that of adjournment shall be transacted by the Council if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than eight Members present in addition to the Governor.

===== Page 230 =====
44. The official languages of the Council of Sultans shall be Malay and English.

45. Subject to the provisions of this Order, the Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its proceedings and the dispatch of business but no such Standing Rules and Orders shall have effect until they have been approved by the Governor.

46.—(1) The Sessions of the Council of Sultans shall be held at such times and places as the Governor shall from time to time, by Proclamation, appoint.

(2) There shall be a session of the Council at least twice in every year.

PART VII.

STATE AND SETTLEMENT COUNCILS.

47. There shall be established a State Council for each of the Malay States, and a Settlement Council for each of the Settlements.

48. Each State Council and Settlement Council shall consist of the Resident Commissioner of the State or Settlement as Chairman and such ex officio Members, Nominated Official Members, Nominated Unofficial Members and Elected Members as may be prescribed.

49.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, it shall be lawful for a State Council or Settlement Council to make laws on any subject—

(a) which is declared by Order of the Governor in Council to be of a purely local nature in the State or Settlement; or

(b) in respect to which the Legislative Council shall have delegated powers of legislation to the State Council or Settlement Council concerned.

(2) Any law passed by a State Council or Settlement Council may, at any time, be repealed or altered by the Legislature of the Union, and shall, without any formal repeal, be void so far as it is repugnant to any law passed by such Legislature or to any proclamation, rule, regulation, by-law or order lawfully made under any such law.

(3) A State Council or Settlement Council shall exercise such powers of local administration as may from time to time be prescribed or allocated to it by the Governor in Council.

50. The Nominated Official Members of any State Council or Settlement Council shall be persons holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, and the Nominated Unofficial Members shall be persons not holding such office. Nominated Members shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

51. The Elected Members shall be persons not holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union and shall be elected in the manner prescribed.

===== Page 231 =====
Summoning of persons other than Members.

52. The Resident Commissioner may summon to any meeting of a State or Settlement Council any person, notwithstanding that such person may not be a Member of the Council, when, in the opinion of the Resident Commissioner, the business before the Council renders the presence of such person desirable. Any person so summoned shall be entitled to take part in the proceedings of the Council relating to the business in respect of which he is summoned as if he were a member of the Council, except that he shall not have the right to vote in the Council.

Tenure of office of Nominated Members.

53.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, a person appointed a Nominated Member shall vacate his seat at the expiration of three years from the date of his appointment, or on the dissolution of the Council, whichever is earlier, but may, if qualified, be again appointed from time to time.

(2) If any person is appointed a Temporary Member of a State Council or Settlement Council in accordance with the provisions of Section 59 of this Order and such appointment is immediately followed by his definitive appointment as a Nominated Member, the said period of three years shall be reckoned from the date of his appointment as a Temporary Member.

Tenure of Office of Elected Members.

54. Subject to the provisions of this Order, a person elected as an Elected Member shall vacate his seat at the expiration of three years from the date of his election or on dissolution of the Council, whichever is earlier, but may, if qualified, be again elected from time to time.

Qualifications for elected and nominated membership.

55. Subject to the provisions of this Order any person who is of the age of twenty-one years or upwards and who, the Governor is satisfied, is able to speak and (unless incapacitated by blindness or other physical cause) to read and write the English, or the Malay, language with a degree of proficiency sufficient to enable him to take an active part in the proceedings of the Council and who, in the case of a State Council, is a Malayan Union citizen, or, in the case of a Settlement Council, is a Malayan Union citizen or a British subject, shall be qualified to be a Nominated or an Elected Member of a State Council or Settlement Council, as the case may be, and no other person shall be qualified to be appointed or elected thereto, or, having been so appointed, or elected, shall sit or vote in such Council.

Disqualification for Membership.

56.—(1) A person shall be disqualified for nominated membership of any State Council or Settlement Council for any reason which would cause disqualification for Membership of the Legislative Council under the provisions of section 20 of this Order.

Provided that sub-section (4) of section 20 shall have effect for the purpose of this sub-section as if the words “or with the Government of any State or Settlement within the Union,” had been inserted before the words “for or on account of the public service,” where those words appear in that sub-section.

(2) A person shall be disqualified for Elected Membership of a State Council or Settlement Council for any reason which would cause disqualification for Membership of the Legislative Council under paragraph (1), (2) or (3) of section 20 of this Order, or

(a) if, being a party to, or a member of a firm or director or manager of a company which is a party to, any subsisting contract with the Government of, or with the Government of any State or Settlement

===== Page 232 =====
Within the Union, for or on account of the public service, or being otherwise interested in any such contract, he shall not have published within one month before the day of election, in the Gazette or in some newspaper circulating in the State or Settlement in which he seeks election, a notice setting out the nature of such contract and his interest, or the interest of such firm or company therein; or

(b) if he is disqualified for membership of the Council under any prescribed provision for the time being in force in the State or Settlement concerned relating to offences connected with the election of Members.

57.—(1) The seat of a Nominated Member of a State Council or Settlement Council shall become vacant upon the occurrence of any event which, if he were an Official Member or Unofficial Member, as the case may be, of the Legislative Council, and the State or Settlement Council were the Legislative Council, would cause the seat of such Member to become vacant under the provisions of sub-section (3) of section 21 of this Order: Provided that paragraph (c) of sub-section (3) of section 21 shall have effect for the purpose of this sub-section as if for the words "if appointed under the proviso to section 19" there were substituted the words "in the case of a member of a Settlement Council".

(2) The seat of an Elected Member of a State or Settlement Council shall become vacant upon the occurrence of any event which, if he were a Nominated Member of any such Council, would cause his seat to become vacant under the provisions of sub-section (1) of this section, or if such Elected Member is disqualified for membership of the Council, under any prescribed provision for the time being in force in the State or Settlement concerned relating to offences connected with the election of Members.

(3) If an Unofficial Member or Elected Member shall be appointed temporarily to, or to act in, any office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, he shall not sit or vote in the Council so long as he continues to hold or act in that office.

(4) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Nominated Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the State Council or Settlement Council concerned and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared, in manner aforesaid, again to be capable of discharging his said functions.

(5) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, suspend any Nominated Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the State Council or Settlement Council concerned. Every such suspension shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the State Council or Settlement Council concerned.

(6) Whenever the seat of a Member becomes vacant under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of this section, the vacancy shall forthwith be reported to the Governor in writing by the Clerk of the Council concerned.

===== Page 233 =====
Decision of Questions as to Membership.

58.—(1) All questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain a Nominated Member of a State Council or Settlement Council shall be referred to and decided by the Governor in Council.

(2) All questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain an Elected Member shall be determined as may be prescribed.

Temporary Appointments.

59.—(1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in any State Council or Settlement Council as ex officio Members, or Nominated Official Members, or Nominated Unofficial Members, by reason of the fact that:

(a) an ex officio Member is lawfully discharging the functions of the Resident Commissioner; or

(b) one person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the ex officio Members; or

(c) a Nominated Member is lawfully discharging the functions of the office of Resident Commissioner or of an ex officio Member; or

(d) no person is lawfully discharging the functions of the office of an ex officio Member; or

(e) a Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or

(f) a Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in this Order, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or

(g) a Member is absent from the Union; or

(h) a Nominated Unofficial Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of his having been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union or to act in any such office;

the Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint a person to be a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) If the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Nominated Official Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as a Nominated Official Member; and if the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Nominated Unofficial Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as a Nominated Unofficial Member.

(3) Every person appointed to be a Temporary Member under this section shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Nominated Official Members, an Official Member;

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Nominated Unofficial Members, a Nominated Unofficial Member;

and, subject to the provisions of this section, the provisions of sections 53 and 57 of this Order shall apply accordingly:

Provided that in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed

===== Page 234 =====
Shall not be regarded as an Official Member in computing the number of such Members prescribed in accordance with section 48 of this Order.

(4) Any appointment under this section may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment under this section shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of revocation of the appointment or when the vacancy shall cease to exist.

60. The Resident Commissioner, if present, shall preside at meetings of the State Council or Settlement Council and, in his absence, such Member of the Council as he may, in writing, appoint, or in the absence of that Member, or if no Member be so appointed, the Senior Member present shall preside.

61.—(1) After the Resident Commissioner, the Members of each State Council and Settlement Council shall take precedence among themselves as the Governor may specially assign, and in the absence of such assignment, as follows:

First, the ex officio Members in such order as may be prescribed;

Secondly, the Nominated Official Members definitively appointed, according to the priority of their appointments as such or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Resident Commissioner;

Thirdly, the Nominated Official Members temporarily appointed under section 59 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments, or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Resident Commissioner;

Fourthly, the Nominated Unofficial Members and Elected Members, according to the length of time during which they have been continuously Members of the Council; Members elected or appointed at the same time taking precedence among themselves as the Resident Commissioner may assign.

(2) For the purposes of this section—

(a) when the State Council or Settlement Council is dissolved, Members elected at the ensuing elections shall be deemed to have been elected by virtue of those elections, and Nominated Unofficial Members appointed to fill vacancies caused thereby shall be deemed to have been appointed, on the date on which the report of the first successful candidate for election is made to the Governor;

(b) paragraph (a) of this sub-section shall apply to the Members elected or appointed to a State Council or Settlement Council as first constituted under this Order as if such elections or appointments were consequent upon a dissolution of the Council; and

(c) in ascertaining the period during which a person has continuously been an Elected Member or a Nominated Unofficial Member of the Council no account shall be taken of any interval between the vacation by that person of his seat in the Council in consequence of the expiration of his tenure of office or a dissolution of the Council and the date of his re-election or re-appointment to fill a vacancy in the Council caused by that expiration of tenure or that dissolution.

===== Page 235 =====
Filling of Vacancies.

62. (1) Whenever the seat of a Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member becomes vacant, the vacancy shall be filled by appointment by the Governor.

(2) Whenever the seat of an Elected Member becomes vacant, a fresh election shall be held to fill the vacancy in accordance with such provisions as may be prescribed.

Voting.

63. Save as otherwise provided in this Order, all questions proposed for decision in the Council shall be determined by a majority of the votes of the Members present and voting. The Resident Commissioner shall not have an original vote, but if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, he shall have a casting vote. In the absence of the Resident Commissioner, the Member presiding shall have an original vote and also, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, a casting vote.

Assent to Bills. Disallowance of laws.

64. The provisions of sections 30 and 31 of this Order (which relate respectively to assent to Bills and disallowances of laws passed by the Legislative Council) shall apply to Bills and to laws passed by a State Council or Settlement Council.

Royal Instructions.

65. Subject to the provisions of this Order each State Council or Settlement Council shall, in the transaction of business and the passing of laws, conform as nearly as may be to the directions contained in any Instructions under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet which may from time to time be addressed to the Governor, and to any instructions of the Governor under the Public Seal which may from time to time be addressed to the Resident Commissioner, in that behalf.

Standing Orders.

66. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of such Instructions as aforesaid, each State Council or Settlement Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its own proceedings and the conduct of business and for the passing, intitulating and numbering of Bills, and for the presentation thereof to the Governor for his assent, but no such Rules or Orders shall have effect unless and until they shall have been approved by the Governor.

Official Language.

67. The official languages of each State Council and Settlement Council shall be Malay and English.

Quorum.

68. No business except that of adjournment shall be transacted by a State or Settlement Council if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than one quarter of the Members present besides the Resident Commissioner or Member presiding.

Introduction of Bills.

69. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council, any Member may introduce any Bill or propose any motion for debate in, or may present any petition to, a State Council or Settlement Council, and the same shall be debated and disposed of according to the Standing Rules and Orders:

Provided that, except with the recommendation or consent of the Resident Commissioner signified thereto, the Council shall not proceed upon any Bill, amendment, motion or petition, which, in the opinion of the Resident Commissioner or of the presiding Member, would—

(a) dispose of, or charge any public revenue or public funds of the State or Settlement, or revoke or alter any disposition thereof or charge thereon, or impose, alter, or repeal any rate, tax or duty; or

===== Page 236 =====
(b) Suspend the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council or any of them.

70. The sessions of each State Council or Settlement Council shall be held at such times and places as the Resident Commissioner shall from time to time by Proclamation appoint. There shall be a session of the Council at least once in every year, so that a period of twelve months shall not intervene between the last sitting in one Session and the first sitting in the next Session.

71.—(1) The Resident Commissioner may at any time, by Proclamation, prorogue or dissolve a State Council or Settlement Council.

(2) On dissolution, all Members shall vacate their seats and the Council shall be reconstituted by election and appointment in accordance with the provisions of this Order at such time, within three months of every dissolution, as the Governor shall by Proclamation appoint.

PART VIII.

SULTAN'S ADVISORY COUNCILS.

72. There shall be established for each of the Malay States a Council to be called the Sultan's Advisory Council.

73. Each Sultan's Advisory Council shall consist of the Sultan as President and such Members as the Sultan shall from time to time appoint.

74. The functions of each Sultan's Advisory Council shall be—

(a) To advise the Sultan on all matters affecting Muhammadan religion in the State;

(b) To advise the Sultan in the making of laws under this Part of this Order;

(c) To advise the Sultan on all matters which are referred to the Council by the Sultan or at the request of the Resident Commissioner with the approval of the Governor.

75.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, it shall be lawful for the Sultan of each of the Malay States, with the advice of the Sultan's Advisory Council of such State, to make laws the provisions of which relate solely to matters of Muhammadan religion and do not involve the imposition, collection or remission of any tax or tithe.

(2) Such laws shall have effect only within the State concerned.

(3) When any such Bill has been approved by a Sultan's Advisory Council, it shall be submitted to the Council of Sultans for approval by that Council pursuant to the provisions of section 40 of this Order. No Bill enacted by a Sultan with the advice of a Sultan's Advisory Council shall become a law until it shall have been approved by the Council of Sultans and assented to by the Sultan of the State concerned pursuant to the provisions of that section.

(4) A law assented to by the Sultan shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the date of such publication, or if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

===== Page 237 =====
Qualifications for Membership.

76. Subject to the provisions of this Order, any person who is of Malay race, professing the Muhammadan religion, and of the age of twenty-one years or upwards shall be qualified to be a Member of a Sultan's Advisory Council, and no other person shall be qualified to be so appointed or, having been so appointed, shall sit or vote in such Council.

Disqualification for Membership.

77. A person shall be disqualified for membership of a Sultan's Advisory Council for any reason which would cause disqualification for Membership of the Legislative Council under the provisions of paragraphs (1), (2) or (3) of section 20 of this Order.

Tenure of Office.

78. Subject to the provisions of this Order, a Member of a Sultan's Advisory Council shall hold his seat in the Council during the pleasure of the Sultan of the State.

Presiding in Sultan's Advisory Councils.

79. The Sultan of the State concerned, if present, shall preside at meetings of the Sultan's Advisory Council and, in his absence, such Member of the Council as he may, in writing appoint, or in the absence of that Member or if no Member be so appointed, the senior Member present shall preside.

Precedence of Members.

80. The Members of each Sultan's Advisory Council shall take precedence among themselves as the Sultan of the State concerned may assign.

Conflict.

81. In the event of any conflict between a law made under this Part and a law made under Part V, or Part VII or made or continued under Part IX, of this Order, the provisions of the last mentioned law shall prevail.

Standing Orders.

82. Subject to the provisions of this Order, each Sultan's Advisory Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its own proceedings and the conduct of business and for the passing, intituling and numbering of Bills, and for the presentation thereof to the Sultan for his assent.

Official language.

83. The official language of each Sultan's Advisory Council shall be Malay.

Sessions.

84.—(1) The Sessions of each Sultan's Advisory Council shall be held at such times and places as the Sultan shall from time to time appoint.

(2) There shall be a session of the Council once at least in every year.

PART IX.

TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS.

Governor may make laws.

85.—(1) Until such time as Parts IV and V of this Order shall come into operation, it shall be lawful for the Governor to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Union.

(2) In making such laws the Governor shall consult the Advisory Council.

(3) Section 31 of this Order shall apply to any law made under this Section as it applies to a law assented to by the Governor.

===== Page 238 =====
86.—(1) There shall be an Advisory Council which shall consist of the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary, and such other persons as the Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint; and such persons shall hold their places in the said Council during the Governor's pleasure.

(2) The Governor alone shall be entitled to submit questions to the Advisory Council for their advice. The Governor may act in opposition to the advice given to him by the Members of the Advisory Council if he shall in any case consider it right so to do. In such case, it shall be competent to any Member of the Advisory Council to require that there be recorded on the Minutes any advice or opinion he may give upon the question and the grounds therefor.

(3) The Governor may regulate the procedure and practice of the Advisory Council in such manner as he shall see fit.

(4) The Governor may, by Proclamation in the Gazette, declare that this section shall cease to have effect, and thereupon this section shall cease to have effect accordingly on the date specified in the Proclamation.

87.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, the existing laws shall, except in so far as the same shall, in their application to the Union or to any part thereof, be repealed, amended or otherwise affected by or under any Act of Parliament, Order of His Majesty in Council or any law made under the provisions of this Order, continue to have effect in the Union or, as the case may be, in that part thereof to which such law applied prior to the appointed day, but shall be construed subject to such modifications as may be necessary to bring them into conformity with the provisions of this Order.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section, the existing laws shall, except as aforesaid, in their application to any part of the Union, be construed, when the context admits, subject to the following modifications:

(a) references to the Colony of the Straits Settlements shall be construed as referring (but not exclusively) to the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang;

(b) references to the Federated Malay States shall be construed as references to the States of Negri Sembilan, Pahang, Perak and Selangor;

(c) references to the Governor or Governor in Council of the Colony of the Straits Settlements, or to the High Commissioner of the Malay States or to the Ruler of any Malay State or to any officer of, or authority, or body constituted in or for, the Straits Settlements or the Federated Malay States or any of the Malay States, shall be construed as references to the Governor or Governor in Council, or to the corresponding officer of, or authority or body constituted in or for the Union, as the case may be; and

(d) references to the Chief Justice or to any Court, Judge or Magistrate of the Straits Settlements or of the Federated Malay States or of any of the Malay States shall be construed as references to the Chief Justice or to the corresponding Court, Judge or Magistrate of the Union.

(3) The adaptations and modifications specified in the second column of the Second Schedule to this Order shall be made in the enactments mentioned in the first column of that Schedule.

===== Page 239 =====
(4) The enactments described in the First Schedule to the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890, shall apply to the Union as if the whole of the Union were a British Colony or Possession, but subject to the provisions of this Order and to the exceptions, adaptations, and modifications following, that is to say:

(i) The Governor is hereby substituted for the Governor of a Colony or British Possession, and the Supreme Court is hereby substituted for a Superior Court or Supreme Court, and for a Magistrate or Justice of the Peace, of a Colony or British Possession.

(ii) For the portions of the Merchant Shipping Acts, 1854 and 1867, referred to in the said Schedule, shall be substituted Part XIII of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894.

(iii) In section 51 of the Conveyancing (Scotland) Act, 1874, and any enactment for the time being in force amending the same, the High Court is substituted for a Court of Probate in a Colony.

(iv) For the purposes of Part II of the Fugitive Offenders Act, 1881, the Union, the Colony of Singapore, Sarawak, Brunei, North Borneo and Labuan shall be deemed to be one group of British possessions:

Provided that nothing in this sub-section contained shall be taken to extend to the Union the enactments mentioned in the Schedule to the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1913, or any of them.

(5) Where under the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894, or any amending Act, anything is authorised to be done by, to, or before a British Consular Officer, such thing may be done, in any place in the Union at which there is no Consular officer, by, to, or before such officer of the Government of the Union as the Governor may appoint.

(6) The Colonial Prisoners Removal Act, 1884, shall apply to and take effect within the Union as if the whole of the Union were a British Possession and part of His Majesty’s dominions, subject as follows:

The Governor is hereby substituted for the Governor of a British Possession.

Validity of previous acts.

88. Subject to the express provisions of this Order, nothing in this Order shall affect the validity or future operation of any lawful act done in any territory now comprised in the Union by any person or authority before the appointed day.

Pending proceedings.

89. All proceedings commenced before the 15th day of February, 1942, in any Court of Justice in, or having jurisdiction in, any territory now comprised in the Union may be carried on in like manner as nearly as may be, as if this Order and the Act of 1946, had not been made or passed but in the corresponding Court of the Union, and any such proceeding may be amended in such manner as may appear necessary or proper in order to bring it into conformity with the provisions of this Order.

Crimes committed and causes of action arising prior to the appointed day.

90. Courts constituted for the Union shall have, within their respective powers, jurisdiction with respect to all offences (including offences against Proclamations issued by, or under the authority of, the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia) and causes of action committed or arising before the appointed day for which the accused might have been tried, or proceedings might have been had, within any of the Malay [POSSIBLY MISSING].

===== Page 240 =====
States or within either of the Settlements under the law (including the provisions of any such Proclamation) in force in the said State or in the Straits Settlements before the appointed day, and such jurisdiction shall be exercised in conformity with the law in force in the State or Settlement concerned at the date when the offence was committed or the cause of action arose and in accordance, as nearly as may be, with the procedure in force in Courts constituted under this Order.

91. Military Courts established in the Malay States or the Settlements by the British Military Administration by virtue of any Proclamation made by, or under the authority of the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia, in which proceedings have been commenced and are pending at the date of this Order shall be deemed to be lawfully constituted Courts with jurisdiction to continue and conclude such proceedings and to issue warrants for the custody of prisoners and the carrying out of sentences in accordance with such Proclamation and any Rules, Regulations or Orders made thereunder, after the appointed day. The powers and functions of a confirming authority or reviewing authority under any such Proclamation may be exercised by such person or persons as the Governor shall designate in that behalf.

92.—(1) In this section—

(i) “Malay States property” means property which, immediately before the appointed day, was vested in or was in the possession, or under the control or held on account of His Majesty, or the Ruler of any of the Malay States, or the Government of the Federated Malay States, or the Government of any of the Malay States, or any officer of any such Government for any of the purposes of any such Government;

(ii) “Straits Settlements property” means property which, immediately before the appointed day, was vested in, or was in the possession, or under the control, or held on account of His Majesty, or the Government of the Straits Settlements, or any officer of that Government, for any of the purposes of that Government; and

(iii) Any reference to property vested in any person or authority shall be construed as including a reference to any property in the possession, or under the control, or held on account, of that person or authority; and any direction that property shall be vested in any person or authority shall likewise be construed as including a direction, as the case may require, that the possession or control of property shall be transferred to, or that property shall be held on account of, that person or authority.

(2) Save as in this section otherwise provided, all Malay States property shall, as from the appointed day, vest in His Majesty, or in the appropriate officer of the Government of the Union, or in the person or body prescribed under sub-section (7) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Union.

(3) Save as in this section otherwise provided, all Straits Settlements property which was, immediately before the appointed day, either—

(a) immovable property situate in the Settlements or either of them; or

(b) vested solely for a purpose of the Government of the Straits Settlements which will, after the appointed day, be a purpose of the [POSSIBLY MISSING]

===== Page 241 =====
Government of the Union in relation to the Settlements or either of them;

shall vest in His Majesty or the appropriate officer of the Government of the Union, or the person or body prescribed under sub-section (7) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Union.

(4) Save as in this section otherwise provided any Straits Settlements property which was, immediately before the appointed day, vested for any purpose of the Government of the Straits Settlements which was common to the Settlements or either of them and to any other territory formerly included in the Straits Settlements but not included in the Union, shall be apportioned between the Union and such territory by agreement between the Governor and the Governor of such territory with the approval of a Secretary of State; or, in default of such agreement, shall be apportioned by order of a Secretary of State. Any such agreement or order may contain provisions for the assessment of values, for the perfecting of any transfer of property mentioned therein and for financial and other adjustments, and may contain such other provisions as may be considered necessary or expedient for carrying the apportionment into effect.

(5) Any Straits Settlements property apportioned to the Union under sub-section (4) of this section shall be vested in His Majesty or the appropriate officer of the Government of the Union, or the person or body prescribed under sub-section (7) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Union; and the Governor may make such vesting or other orders as may be considered necessary or expedient for carrying the provisions of this Section into effect, and for such purpose may appoint and empower persons to transfer property.

(6) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, any property which, immediately before the appointed day, was vested in the Ruler of any of the Malay States for any of the following purposes, shall continue to be vested in the Sultan of the State for the same purposes, that is to say—

(a) any property held by, or in trust for, or for the benefit of a Ruler for his official or personal use; or

(b) any building or land used for purposes of the Muhammadan religion, or property pertaining to the endowment of Muhammadan religious institutions;

and nothing in this section shall affect the use or enjoyment of any property vested in a Ruler or in His Majesty for any of the said purposes.

(7) The Governor may make regulations for determining, in cases of doubt, the person or body in whom property affected by this section shall be vested, and generally for giving effect to this section, and may, by Order, exclude any particular property from the operation of this section, or declare, for the removal of doubt, whether and in what manner, any particular property is affected thereby.

93.—(1) All liabilities incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Federated Malay States or of the Government of any of the Malay States for any of the purposes of any such Government shall be deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Union.

===== Page 242 =====
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section—

(a) Such liabilities shall include claims in respect of Loans issued, and Post Office Savings Bank deposits received, by the Government of the Federated Malay States or the Government of any of the Malay States.

(b) Claims to pensions, gratuities and other like allowances in respect of service under the Government of the Federated Malay States or the Government of any of the Malay States before the appointed day, whether arising before or after that day, shall be liabilities deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Union.

(3) All liabilities incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Straits Settlements solely for a purpose which will, after the appointed day, be a purpose of the Government of the Union in relation to the Settlements or either of them shall be deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Union.

(4) It shall be lawful for the Governor, with the approval of a Secretary of State, to make, vary, rescind and carry into effect, arrangements with the Governor of any territory formerly included in the Straits Settlements but not included in the Union for the payment to the Government of that territory from the funds of the Government of the Union, of contribution towards the sums necessary to defray such of the liabilities of the Government of the Straits Settlements as shall have been transferred, by any Order in Council or otherwise, to the Government of that territory, including liabilities for the service and repayment of Loans and War Savings Certificates issued, Post Office Savings Bank Deposits received and pensions allowances and gratuities payable, by the Government of the Straits Settlements. Such contributions shall be proportionate to the share of such liabilities which, a Secretary of State is satisfied, is properly attributable to the Settlements.

(5) Claims in respect of liabilities deemed, by virtue of this section, to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Union which, if the Act of 1946 had not been passed and this Order had not been made, might have been enforced against His Majesty in His Government of the Straits Settlements, or against the Government of the Federated Malay States or of any of the Malay States or against any officer of any such Government in his official capacity or against any department of any such Government in connection with the administration of the Settlements or either of them or of the Federated Malay States or of any Malay State, may be enforced in such manner as may be prescribed by laws for the time being in force or by any regulation made by the Governor under sub-section (6) of this section, against His Majesty in His Government of the Union or against the Government or the appropriate officer of the Government of the Union, as the case may be.

(6) The Governor may make regulations for determining in any case of doubt the person or body by or against whom claims may be enforced under this section and generally for giving effect thereto.

94. The provisions of sections 88 to 93 inclusive of this Order may be amended by laws made under Part V or under section 85 of this Order.

===== Page 243 =====
PART X.

MISCELLANEOUS.

95. Except for the purpose of enabling this section to be complied with, no Member shall sit or vote on any Council constituted under Section 13 and Parts IV and VII of this Order until he shall have taken and subscribed before the Governor, or some person authorized by the Governor in that behalf, the Oath of Allegiance in the form set out in the First Schedule to this Order:

Provided that every person authorized by law to make an affirmation instead of taking an oath in legal proceedings may make such affirmation in like terms instead of the said oath.

96.—(1) Provision may be made by laws made under this Order and, until such provision has been so made, by regulations made by the Governor, regulating any matter which by this Order or by Instructions under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet is to be prescribed.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section, provision may be made regulating the election of Elected Members to any State Council or Settlement Council constituted by this Order including provision for regulating any of the following matters, that is to say:

(a) the persons, associations or bodies by whom Members are to be elected;
(b) the holding of elections;
(c) the qualifications of voters;
(d) the registration of voters;
(e) the ascertainment of the qualifications of voters and candidates;
(f) offences in relation to elections including the trial and punishment thereof; and
(g) the disposal of election petitions and the determination of questions otherwise arising regarding membership of the Councils.

(3) Such regulations shall be published in the Gazette; and thereafter every such regulation shall take effect on the day of publication or on such other day as may be therein specified and shall have the force of law.

97. Any person who—

(a) having been elected or appointed a member of any Council constituted by this Order, but not having been at the time of such election or appointment, qualified to be so elected or appointed, shall sit or vote in such Council; or

(b) shall sit or vote in such Council after his seat therein has become vacant or he has become disqualified from sitting or voting therein; knowing, or having reasonable grounds for knowing, that he was disqualified, or that his seat has become vacant, as the case may be, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding two hundred dollars for every day upon which he so sits or votes.

(2) The said penalty shall be recoverable by action in the Supreme Court at the suit of the Attorney General.

===== Page 244 =====
98. No Council constituted by this Order shall be disqualified from the transaction of business by reason of any vacancy among the Members, or by reason of the sitting or voting therein of any unqualified or disqualified person.

99. For the avoidance of doubts it is hereby declared that any law or regulation made under this Order may be made to operate retrospectively to any date.

100.—(1) If any difficulty shall arise in bringing into operation any of the provisions of this Order or in giving effect to the purposes thereof, a Secretary of State may, by Order, make such provision as seems to him necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing the difficulty and may by such Order amend or add to any provision of this Order:

Provided that no Order under this section shall be made later than the first day of January, 1948:

(2) Any Order under this section may be amended, added to, or revoked by a further Order, and may be given retrospective effect to a day not earlier than the appointed day.

101. Nothing in this Order shall affect the power of His Majesty in Council to make laws from time to time for the peace, order and good government of the Union.

E. C. E. Leadbitter.

FIRST SCHEDULE.

OATH OF ALLEGIANCE.

(Sections 6 and 95).

I, ..., do swear that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to His Majesty King George VI, His Heirs and Successors, according to Law. So help me God.

OATH FOR THE DUE EXECUTION OF THE OFFICE OF GOVERNOR.

I, ..., do swear that I will well and truly serve His Majesty King George VI, His Heirs and Successors, in the Office of Governor. So help me God.

THE SECOND SCHEDULE.

(Section 87 (3)).

Adaptation of Acts of Parliament.

Title of Act. Adaptation.

The Finance Act, 1922 Subsection (2) of section 45 of the Act shall have effect as if the words "Negri Sembilan, Pahang, Perak, Selangor" were substituted for the words "the Federated Malay States and" in line two.

The Pensions (Governors of Dominions, etc.) Act, 1929 Section 9 of the Act shall have effect as if the words "Malayan Union" were substituted for the words "Malay States" in the last line.

Printed by His Majesty's Stationery Office Press, Drury Lane, W.C.2.

===== Page 245 =====
FIRST SCHEDULE

OATH OF EXECUTION

WHEREFOR THE OATH OF EXECUTION

THE RECORD SCHEDULE

(240)

Absorption

Time of Act

1. Good
2. Good
3. Good

Decision of the Act which gave effect
on the words of the Oath of Execution
of the words of the Oath of Execution
of the words of the Oath of Execution

===== Page 246 =====
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE
The 27th day of March, 1946

Present
THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL.

WHEREAS by the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890, it was, amongst other things, enacted that it should be lawful for His Majesty the King to hold, exercise and enjoy any jurisdiction which His Majesty then had or might at any time thereafter have within a foreign country in the same and as ample a manner as if His Majesty had acquired that jurisdiction by the cession or conquest of territory:

AND WHEREAS His Majesty has full power and jurisdiction within the Malay States of Johore, Kedah, Kelantan, Negri Sembilan, Pahang, Perak, Perlis, Selangor and Trengganu (hereinafter referred to together as "the Malay States"):

AND WHEREAS, by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Act, 1946 (hereinafter called "the Act of 1946") it is, amongst other things, enacted that on such day as His Majesty may by Order in Council appoint (in that Act and in this Order referred to as "the appointed day") the Straits Settlements Act, 1866, shall be repealed and the Straits Settlements, that is to say the settlements and dependencies mentioned in the Schedule to the Act of 1946 (which comprise, among other settlements and dependencies, the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang (including province Wellesley) and the dependencies of the said settlements) shall cease to be a single colony and that on and after the appointed day each of the said settlements and dependencies shall be divided into such territories as His Majesty may by Order in Council direct and that those territories shall be governed either singly or in conjunction with such other territories (whether falling within the Schedule to the Act of 1946 or not) as may be specified in such Order and that such Order in Council may contain such other and consequential provisions as are contained in this Order:

AND WHEREAS by the Act of 1946 it is further enacted that the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945, shall apply in relation to each of the territories into which the said Settlements and dependencies are divided by Order under this Act as if it were a British settlement as so defined:

AND WHEREAS by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Order in Council, 1946, it is provided that the appointed day shall be the first day of April, 1946:

AND WHEREAS it is expedient to make provision for the administration, on and after the appointed day, of the Malay States in conjunction with the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang and the dependencies of the said Settlements:

===== Page 247 =====
NOW THEREFORE, His Majesty, by virtue and in exercise of the powers by the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890, and by the Act of 1946 and the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945, or otherwise in His Majesty vested, is pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council to order, and it is hereby ordered, as follows:

PART I.

PRELIMINARY.

1.—(1) This Order may be cited as the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946, and, except as to section 13 and Parts IV, V, VI, VII and VIII, shall come into operation on the appointed day.

(2) Section 13 and Parts IV, V, VI, VII and VIII of this Order shall come into operation on such day, or days respectively, within a period of six months from the appointed day, as may be fixed by the Governor by proclamation in the Gazette and the Governor may fix different days for different purposes and different provisions of that section and those Parts:

Provided that the said period of six months may be extended by the Governor, by Proclamation in the Gazette, for such further period as may be approved by a Secretary of State.

2.—(1) In this Order, unless the context otherwise requires—

“the Chief Justice” means the Chief Justice of the Union;

“the existing laws” means the common law, doctrines of equity and all Acts of Parliament, Orders in Council, Enactments of the Legislature of the Federated Malay States, Enactments of the Legislature of any Malay State, Ordinances of the Legislature of the Colony of the Straits Settlements, Proclamations issued by the High Commissioner of the Malay States or by the Ruler of any of the Malay States, or by the Governor of the Straits Settlements or by, or under the authority of, the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia (other than the Proclamations establishing the British Military Administration and delegating powers thereunder) and all Rules, Regulations and By-laws made thereunder and all other enactments and instruments having the force of law in the Union or in any part thereof immediately prior to the appointed day, whether the same were administered by the British Military Administration or not;

“the Gazette” means the official Gazette of the Union;

“the Governor” means the Governor and Commander-in-Chief for the time being of the Union and includes any officer for the time being administering the Government thereof, and, to the extent that a Deputy to the Governor is authorised to act, that Deputy;

“the Governor in Council” means the Governor acting after consultation with, but not necessarily in accordance with the advice of, the Executive Council of the Union nor necessarily in such Council assembled; and, until Section 13 of this Order is in operation, means the Governor;

“Malayan Union citizen” means a citizen of the Union within the meaning of any Order in Council or other enactment providing for Malayan Union Citizenship;

“meeting” means any sitting or sittings of a Council constituted under this Order commencing when the Council first meets after being

===== Page 248 =====
Summoned at any time and terminating when the Council is adjourned sine die or at the conclusion of a session without adjournment;

“Prescribed” means prescribed by any law made under this Order or by regulation made by the Governor under section 96;

“Property” includes all property, movable or immovable, and all estates, interests, easements and rights, whether equitable or legal, in, to or out of property, and things in action and rights to revenue, taxes, duties and other dues; and “vested” in relation to property includes rights to property which are future or contingent and rights in reversion and remainder;

“The Public Seal” means the public seal of the Union and includes the official stamp mentioned in section 9 of this Order;

“Session” means the sittings of any Council constituted under this Order commencing when the Council first meets after being so constituted, or after its prorogation or dissolution at any time, and terminating when the Council is prorogued or is dissolved without having been prorogued;

“The settlements” means the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang;

“The Settlement of Malacca” means the Town and Fort and Province of Malacca and all islands and places heretofore known or administered as part of the Settlement of Malacca, and the territorial waters adjacent thereto;

“The settlement of Penang” means Georgetown and the Island of Penang (or Prince of Wales’ Island), Province Wellesley and all islands and places heretofore known or administered as part of the Settlement of Penang, and the territorial waters adjacent thereto;

“Sultan” includes the Raja of Perlis and the Yang di-Pertuan Besar of Negri Sembilan, and, during a Regency in any of the Malay States, means the Regent, or if there be a Council of Regency, the Member of that Council to whom is assigned the function in connection with which the term is used;

“The Supreme Court” means the Supreme Court of the Union;

“The Union” means the Malayan Union constituted by section 3 of this Order.

(2) For the purposes of this Order, when reference is made to a Sultan of any of the Malay States or to any public officer by the term designating his office, such reference means the Sultan for the time being of the State concerned, or the officer for the time being lawfully discharging the functions of that office, as the case may be.

(3) For the purposes of this Order, a person shall not be deemed to hold an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union by reason only that he is in receipt of a pension or other like allowance in respect of service under the Crown.

If it shall be declared by any law for the time being in force in the Union that an office shall not be an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union for all or any of the purposes of this Order, this Order shall have effect accordingly as if that law were enacted herein.

(4) The Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply for the interpretation of this Order as it applies for the interpretation of an Act of Parliament.

===== Page 249 =====
3. There shall be established a Union comprising the Malay States and the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang, to be governed and administered together and to be known as the Malayan Union.

PART II.

THE GOVERNOR AND EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.

Governor.

4. There shall be a Governor and Commander-in-Chief (hereinafter called "the Governor") in and over the Union, and appointments to the said office shall be made by Commission under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet.

Powers of Governor.

5. The Governor is hereby empowered and commanded to do all things that belong to his said office in accordance with this Order and such Commission as may be issued to him under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet and according to such Instructions as may from time to time be given to him under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet, or through a Secretary of State, and such Orders in Council and other laws as may from time to time be in force in the Union.

Publication of Governor's Commission and taking of oaths.

6. Every person appointed to fill the office of Governor shall, before entering on any of the duties of his office, cause the Commission appointing him to be Governor to be read and published at the seat of Government, in the presence of the Chief Justice or, in his absence, of some other Judge of the Supreme Court, and (if section 13 of this Order is in force) of such Members of the Executive Council of the Union as can conveniently attend; and shall take before them the Oath of Allegiance and the Oath for the due execution of the office of Governor in the forms set out in the First Schedule to this Order, which Oaths the Chief Justice or such other Judge as aforesaid shall administer.

Succession to Government.

7. (1) Whenever the office of Governor becomes vacant, or the Governor is absent from the Union, or the Governor is from any cause prevented from, or incapable of, performing the duties of his office, then such person as His Majesty may appoint under His Sign Manual and Signet or if there is no such person in the Union so appointed and capable of discharging the duties of administration, the senior Member of the Executive Council then in the Union and so capable, shall during His Majesty's pleasure, administer the Government of the Union, first taking, in manner in this Order prescribed, the oaths directed by this Order to be taken by the Governor. Thereupon such person or Member shall, subject, if he is so appointed as aforesaid, to the terms of his appointment, do, during His Majesty's pleasure, all things that belong to the Office of Governor as provided in this Order:

Provided that the Governor or any other person or Member as aforesaid shall not be regarded as absent from the Union or prevented from or incapable of performing the duties of his office for the purposes of this Order during his passage from one part of the Union to another or during a visit to the Colony of Singapore or when there is a subsisting appointment of a Deputy under the next succeeding section of this Order.

(2) Any such person as aforesaid shall not continue to administer the Government after the Governor or some other person having a prior right to administer the same has notified him that he is about to assume or resume the administration.

===== Page 250 =====
8.—(1) Whenever the Governor has occasion to be absent from the seat of Government but not from the Union, or to be absent from the Union for a period which he has reason to believe will be of short duration, or whenever by reason of illness which he has reason to believe will be of short duration he considers it desirable so to do, he may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint any person in the Union to be his Deputy during such absence or illness, and in that capacity to exercise and perform for and on behalf of the Governor during such absence or illness all such functions of the Governor as shall be specified in such Instrument.

(2) By the appointment of a Deputy as aforesaid the power and authority of the Governor shall not be abridged, altered, or in any way affected otherwise than as His Majesty may at any time hereafter think proper to direct, and every such Deputy shall conform to and observe all such instructions as the Governor shall from time to time address to him for his guidance.

(3) Any appointment under this section may at any time be revoked by the Governor or by a Secretary of State and, in case of absence as aforesaid, shall cease and determine upon the return of the Governor to the seat of Government or to the Union, as the case may be.

9. The Governor shall keep and use the Public Seal of the Union for sealing all things whatsoever that shall pass the said Seal. Until a Public Seal shall be provided for the Union, an official stamp bearing the inscription "Malayan Union. Public Seal" may be used as the Public Seal.

10. Subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force in the Union and of any Instructions from time to time given to the Governor under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, the Governor, in His Majesty's name and on His Majesty's behalf, may make and execute, under the Public Seal, grants and dispositions of any lands within the Union which may be lawfully granted or disposed of by His Majesty.

11. Subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force in the Union and to any Instructions from time to time given to him by His Majesty through a Secretary of State, the Governor for cause shown to his satisfaction, may dismiss or suspend from the exercise of his office any person holding any public office within the Union, or may take such other disciplinary action as may seem to him desirable.

12. When any offence has been committed for which the offender may be tried within the Union, the Governor may, as he shall see occasion, in His Majesty's name and on His Majesty's behalf, grant a pardon to any accomplice in such offence who shall give such information as shall lead to the conviction of the principal offender, or any one of such offenders if more than one; and further may grant to any offender convicted of any such offence in any Court within the Union, a pardon, either free or subject to lawful conditions, or any respite, either indefinite or for such period as the Governor may think fit, of the execution of any sentence passed on such offender, and may remit the whole or any part of such sentence or of any penalties or forfeitures otherwise due to His Majesty.

13. There shall be an Executive Council for the Union and the said Council shall consist of such persons as His Majesty shall direct by

===== Page 251 =====
Instructions under His Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, and all such persons shall hold their places in the Executive Council during His Majesty’s pleasure and, subject thereto, for such period and upon such conditions as may be specified in any such Instructions.

PART III.

COURTS.

14.—(1) There shall be in and for the Union a Court of unlimited civil and criminal jurisdiction to be called the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court shall be a Court of Record and may consist of a High Court and a Court of Appeal.

(2) There shall be a Chief Justice appointed by His Majesty by Letters Patent under the Great Seal of the Realm, or by the Governor by Letters Patent under the Public Seal in accordance with such instructions as he may receive from His Majesty through a Secretary of State, and as many Judges of the Supreme Court, appointed similarly or in manner prescribed, as may from time to time be required. The Chief Justice and Judges of the Supreme Court shall hold office during His Majesty’s pleasure.

(3) The constitution, powers and procedure of the Supreme Court and provisions relating to appeals therefrom to His Majesty in Council and provisions relating to the qualifications, order of precedence, duties and powers of Judges, and appointment of temporary Judges, may, subject to the provisions of this Order, be prescribed by laws made under this Order.

15.—(1) Courts subordinate to the Supreme Court and Courts of special jurisdiction may be constituted by laws made under this Order.

(2) Provision may be made by such laws for the hearing and determining of appeals from any such Court by the Supreme Court or otherwise.

PART IV.

LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.

16.—(1) There shall be a Legislative Council in and for the Union constituted in accordance with the provisions of this Order.

(2) The Council shall consist of the Governor as President, three ex officio Members, and such Official Members, not exceeding eighteen and such Unofficial Members, not exceeding twenty-one, as His Majesty shall direct by Instructions under His Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State.

Ex officio Members.

17. The ex officio Members shall be the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General and the Financial Secretary.

Official Members.

18. The Official Members shall be persons holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, and shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of His Majesty’s instructions through a Secretary of State.

Unofficial Members.

19. The Unofficial Members shall be Malayan Union citizens of the age of twenty-one years or upwards not holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, who, the Governor is satisfied, are able

===== Page 252 =====
to speak and (unless incapacitated by blindness or other physical cause) to read and write the English language with a degree of proficiency sufficient to enable them to take an active part in the proceedings of the Council. Unofficial Members shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of His Majesty's Instructions through a Secretary of State:

Provided that the Governor may, for cause shown to his satisfaction, appoint a British subject who is not a Malayan Union citizen to be an Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council.

20. No person shall be capable of being appointed an Official or Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council or, having been appointed, shall sit and vote therein, who at the time of appointment—

(1) is a person found or declared to be of unsound mind under any law in force in the Union; or

(2) has, in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection, been sentenced to death or to imprisonment (by whatever name called) for a term exceeding six months and has not either suffered the punishment to which he was sentenced or such other punishment as may by competent authority have been substituted therefor or received a free pardon; or

(3) is an undischarged bankrupt; or

(4) is a party to, or a member of a firm or a director or manager of a company which is a party to, any subsisting contract with the Government of the Union, for or on account of the public service, or is otherwise to his knowledge interested in any such contract, and shall not have disclosed to the Governor the nature of such contract and his interest, or the interest of any such firm or company, therein.

21.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, every Official Member or Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council shall hold his seat in the Legislative Council during His Majesty's pleasure and, subject thereto, shall cease to be a Member at the end of three years from the date of the Instrument by which he is appointed, or at such earlier date as may be provided by such Instrument, or previously if his seat shall become vacant under the provisions of this Order.

(2) If a person is appointed a Temporary Member of the Legislative Council in accordance with the provisions of Section 22 of this Order and such appointment is immediately followed by his definitive appointment as a Member, the said period of three years shall be reckoned from the date of his appointment as a Temporary Member.

(3) The seat of a Member of the Legislative Council (other than an ex officio Member) shall become vacant—

(a) upon his death; or

(b) if he shall, without the leave of the Governor, be absent from two consecutive meetings of the Council; or

(c) if he shall cease to be a Malayan Union citizen, or, if appointed under the proviso to section 19, a British subject, or shall take any oath, or make any declaration or acknowledgment of allegiance, obedience or adherence to any foreign Power or State; or shall do, concur in or adopt any act done with the intention that he shall become a subject or citizen of any foreign Power or State; or

===== Page 253 =====
(d) if he shall be declared a bankrupt under any law in force in any part of His Majesty’s dominions or in any territory under His Majesty’s protection; or

(e) if in any part of His Majesty’s dominions or in any territory under His Majesty’s protection, he shall be sentenced to death, or imprisonment, by whatever name called, for a term exceeding six months; or

(f) if he shall be found or declared to be of unsound mind under any law in force in the Union; or

(g) if he shall, by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor, resign his seat in the Council; or

(h) if, being an Official Member, he shall cease to hold office of emolument under the Crown in the Union; or

(i) if, being an Unofficial Member, he shall be appointed permanently to any such office; or

(j) if, being an Unofficial Member, he shall, without the approval of the Governor, become a party to, or if any firm in which he is a partner, or any company of which he is a director or manager, shall become a party to, or if he shall be otherwise interested in, any contract with the Government of the Union for or on account of the public service and shall not, before the making of the contract, have disclosed to the Governor the nature of such contract and his interest or the interest of any such firm or company therein.

(4) If an Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council shall be appointed temporarily to any office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, or shall be appointed to act in any such office, he shall not sit or vote in the Legislative Council so long as he continues to hold or to act in that office.

(5) Any person vacating a seat as a Member of the Legislative Council may, if qualified, be again appointed as a Member from time to time.

(6) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Official Member or Unofficial Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council, and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared, in manner aforesaid, to be again capable of discharging his said functions.

(7) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, suspend any Official Member or Unofficial Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the Council. Every such suspension shall forthwith be reported by the Governor to His Majesty through a Secretary of State, and shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal or by His Majesty through a Secretary of State, or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the Legislative Council.

(8) All questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain an Official or Unofficial Member shall be referred to and decided by the Governor in Council whose decision shall be final and shall not be called in question in any Court in the Union.

22.—(1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Legislative Council as ex officio Members, or Official Members or Unofficial Members, by reason of the fact that—

(a) an ex officio Member is administering the Government of the Union; or

===== Page 254 =====
(b) One person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the three officers specified in section 17 of this Order; or

(c) No person is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or

(d) An Official Member is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or

(e) The seat of an Official or Unofficial Member is vacant for any cause other than a dissolution of the Council; or

(f) An Official or Unofficial Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in this Order, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or

(g) An Official or Unofficial Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or

(h) A Member is absent from the Union; or

(i) An Unofficial Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of his having been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union or to act in any such office;

the Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint a person to be a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) If the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Official Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as an Official Member; and if the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Unofficial Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as an Unofficial Member.

(3) Every person appointed to be a Temporary Member under this section shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—

(a) In the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Official Members, an Official Member;

(b) In the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Unofficial Members, an Unofficial Member;

and, subject to the provisions of this section, the provisions of section 21 of this Order shall apply accordingly:

Provided that, in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed shall not be regarded as an Official Member in computing the number of such Members for the purposes of sub-section (2) of section 16 of this Order.

(4) The Governor shall forthwith report every such temporary appointment to His Majesty through a Secretary of State. Any such appointment may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be disallowed by His Majesty through a Secretary of State or revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment under this section shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of disallowance by His Majesty or of revocation by the Governor, or on supersession of the appointment by the definitive appointment of a person to fill the vacancy, or when the vacancy shall otherwise cease to exist.

===== Page 255 =====
23. The Governor may summon to any meeting of the Legislative Council any person holding public office under the Crown in the Union, notwithstanding that such person may not be a Member of the Council, when, in the opinion of the Governor, the business before the Council renders the presence of such person desirable. Any person so summoned shall be entitled to take part in the proceedings of the Council relating to the business in respect of which he is summoned as if he were a Member of the Council, except that he shall not have the right to vote in the Council.

Governor to preside.

24. The Governor, if present, shall preside at meetings of the Council, and, in his absence, such Member as the Governor may in writing appoint or, in the absence of such Member, or if no Member be so appointed, the senior Member of Council actually present shall preside.

Quorum.

25. No business except that of adjournment shall be transacted by the Council if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than one quarter of the Members present besides the Governor or other Member presiding.

Precedence of Members.

26. After the Governor, the Members of the Council shall take precedence as His Majesty may specially assign or, if precedence be not so assigned, as follows:

First, the ex officio Members in the order in which they are mentioned in section 17 of this Order;

Secondly, the Official Members appointed under section 18 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments as such, or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Thirdly, Official Members temporarily appointed under section 22 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Fourthly, the Unofficial Members appointed under section 19 of this Order according to the priority of their appointments as such, or if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Fifthly, the Unofficial Members temporarily appointed under section 22 of this Order according to the priority of their appointments or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor:

Provided that when a Member is re-appointed to fill a vacancy caused by the termination of his own term of office the date from which he has been continuously a Member of the Council (any interval between such termination and re-appointment being disregarded) shall be regarded as the date of his appointment for the purposes of this section.

Part V.

LEGISLATION AND PROCEDURE IN LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.

Power to make laws.

27. Subject to the provisions of this Order, it shall be lawful for the Governor, with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council, to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Union.

Voting.

28. Save as otherwise provided in this Order, all questions proposed for decision in the Council shall be determined by a majority of the

===== Page 256 =====
Votes of the Members present and voting. The Governor shall not have an original vote, but, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, he shall have a casting vote. In the absence of the Governor, the Member presiding shall have an original vote and also, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, a casting vote.

29.—(1) If the Governor shall consider that it is expedient in the interests of public order, public faith or good government that any Bill introduced, or any motion, proposed for decision in the Council shall have effect, then if the Council fail to pass such a Bill or motion, within such time and in such form as the Governor may think reasonable and expedient, the Governor, at any time in his discretion, may, notwithstanding any provisions of this Order or of any Standing Rules or Orders of the Council, declare that such Bill or motion shall have effect as if it had been passed by the Council, either in the form in which it was so introduced or proposed or with such amendments as the Governor shall think fit which have been moved or proposed in the Council or in any Committee thereof; and thereupon the said Bill or motion shall have effect as if it had been so passed, and, in the case of any such Bill, the provisions of this Order relating to assent to Bills and disallowance of laws shall apply accordingly.

(2) In this section the expressions "public order, public faith or good government" shall, without prejudice to their generality, include the following:

(a) the responsibility of the Union as a component part of the British Empire including foreign relations and relations with other parts of the British Empire;

(b) all questions relating to defence, including provision, construction, maintenance and use of defence works, areas and communications;

(c) subjects upon which, in the opinion of the Governor or of a Secretary of State, it is necessary to secure uniformity in legislation between the Union and the Colony of Singapore; and

(d) all matters pertaining to the creation or abolition of any public office and to the appointment, salary or other conditions of service of any public officer or officers.

(3) The Governor shall forthwith report to a Secretary of State every case in which he shall make any such declaration as is mentioned in sub-section (1) of this section and the reason therefor.

(4) If any Member of the Legislative Council objects to any declaration made under this section, he may, within seven days of the making thereof, submit to the Governor a statement in writing of his reasons for so objecting, and a copy of such statement shall, if furnished by such Member, be forwarded by the Governor as soon as practicable to a Secretary of State.

(5) Any such declaration other than a declaration relating to a Bill, may be revoked by a Secretary of State, and the Governor shall notify such revocation in the Gazette; and from the date of such notification any motion which shall have had effect by virtue of the declaration revoked shall cease to have effect, and the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 38 of the Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply to such revocation as they apply to the repeal of an Act of Parliament.

===== Page 257 =====
30.—(1) No Bill shall become a law until either the Governor shall assent thereto in His Majesty’s name and on His Majesty’s behalf, and shall sign the same in token of assent, or His Majesty shall give his assent thereto through a Secretary of State.

(2) When a Bill is presented to the Governor for his assent, he shall, according to his discretion, but subject to the provisions of this Order and of any Instructions addressed to him under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, declare that he assents or refuses to assent thereto, or that he reserves the Bill for the signification of His Majesty’s pleasure.

(3) A law assented to by the Governor shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the date of such publication, or, if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment (including any enactment in force at the commencement of this Order) that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

(4) A Bill reserved for the signification of His Majesty’s pleasure shall become a law so soon as His Majesty shall have given His assent thereto, through a Secretary of State, and the Governor shall have signified such assent by Proclamation in the Gazette. Every such law shall come into operation on the date of such Proclamation or, if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment (including any enactment in force at the commencement of this Order) that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

31.—(1) Any law to which the Governor shall have given his assent may be disallowed by His Majesty through a Secretary of State.

(2) Whenever any law has been disallowed by His Majesty, the Governor shall cause notice of such disallowance to be published in the Gazette.

(3) Every law so disallowed shall cease to have effect as soon as notice of such disallowance shall be published as aforesaid. Thereafter any enactment repealed or amended by such law shall have effect as if such law had not been made, but, save as aforesaid, the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 38 of the Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply to such disallowance as they apply to the repeal of an Act of Parliament.

32. Subject to the provisions of this Order, the Governor and the Legislative Council shall, in the transaction of business and the passing of laws, conform as nearly as may be to the directions contained in any Instructions under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet which may from time to time be addressed to the Governor in that behalf.

33. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of such Instructions as aforesaid, the Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its own proceedings and the conduct of business and for the passing, intituling and numbering of Bills, and for the presentation thereof to the Governor for his assent, but no such Rules or Orders shall have effect unless and until they have been approved by the Governor.

34. The official language of the Council shall be English.

35. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council, any Member may introduce any Bill or

===== Page 258 =====
Propose any motion for debate in, or may present any petition to, the Council, and the same shall be debated and disposed of according to the Standing Rules and Orders:

Provided that, except with the recommendation or consent of the Governor signified thereto, the Council shall not proceed upon any Bill, amendment, motion, or petition, which, in the opinion of the Governor or of the presiding Member, would—

(a) dispose of, or charge any public revenue or public funds of the Union, or revoke or alter any disposition thereof or charge thereon, or impose, alter, or repeal any rate, tax, or duty; or

(b) suspend the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council or any of them.

36.—(1) The sessions of the Legislative Council shall be held at such times and places as the Governor shall from time to time by Proclamation appoint.

(2) There shall be a session of the Council once at least in every year, so that a period of twelve months shall not intervene between the last sitting in one Session and the first sitting in the next Session.

37. The Governor may at any time, by Proclamation, prorogue the Legislative Council.

PART VI.

THE COUNCIL OF SULTANS.

38. There shall be established for the Union a Council to be called the Council of Sultans.

39.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order the Council of Sultans shall consist of the Governor as President and the following Members:

(1) His Highness the Sultan of Johore;
(2) His Highness the Sultan of Pahang;
(3) His Highness the Yang di per Tuan Besar of Negri Sembilan;
(4) His Highness the Sultan of Perak;
(5) His Highness the Sultan of Selangor;
(6) His Highness the Sultan of Kedah;
(7) His Highness the Raja of Perlis;
(8) His Highness the Sultan of Kelantan;
(9) His Highness the Sultan of Trengganu;
(10) The Chief Secretary;
(11) The Attorney-General; and
(12) The Financial Secretary.

(2) During a Regency in any of the Malay States, the Regent or, if there be a Council of Regency, such Member of that Council as the Council of Regency may assign, shall be a Member of the Council of Sultans in the place of the Sultan of the State.

40.—(1) The functions of the Council of Sultans shall be—

(a) to consider legislation, relating solely to matters of Muhammadan religion, which the Sultan’s Advisory Council in any State has approved for enactment; and

===== Page 259 =====
(b) To advise the Governor on any matter which he may refer to the Council for discussion, and on any matter which any Sultan may propose for discussion.

(2) Subject as hereinafter provided, every Bill relating solely to matters of Muhammadan religion approved by a Sultan’s Advisory Council in any State under the provisions of section 75 of this Order, shall, after submission to the Council of Sultans, be referred by that Council to a Committee (in this section called “the Muhammadan Legislation Committee”) consisting of the Muhammadan Members of the Council of Sultans under the chairmanship of the senior Sultan present. The Muhammadan Legislation Committee shall consider the Bill and shall report approval or disapproval thereof to the Council of Sultans, and, in case of disapproval, shall record the grounds of disapproval. Any such Bill which is approved by the Muhammadan Legislation Committee shall be approved by the Council of Sultans:

Provided that no Bill shall be received by the Council of Sultans or be referred to, or considered by the Muhammadan Legislation Committee, unless it be accompanied by a certificate from the Attorney-General certifying that, in his opinion, the Bill complies with sub-section (1) of section 75 of this Order, and does not conflict with any law in force in the State concerned other than a law, relating solely to matters of Muhammadan religion, which is to be repealed or modified by the Bill.

(3) A Bill approved by the Council of Sultans shall be returned by the Clerk of that Council to the Clerk of the Sultan’s Advisory Council concerned with an intimation of such approval. Thereafter, the Sultan of the State concerned may assent thereto, and, upon such assent, the law shall come into operation as provided in section 75 of this Order.

(4) Any Bill disapproved by the Muhammadan Legislation Committee shall be disapproved by the Council of Sultans and shall be returned by the Clerk of that Council to the Clerk of the Sultan’s Advisory Council concerned, together with the grounds of disapproval. Any Bill so returned may be altered by the Sultan’s Advisory Council concerned and submitted again for consideration by the Council of Sultans.

(5) In this section the expression “senior Sultan” means the Sultan having precedence under section 42 of this Order.

Summoning of persons not Members.

41. The Governor may summon to any meeting of the Council of Sultans any person holding public office under the Crown in the Union, notwithstanding that such person may not be a member of the Council, when, in the opinion of the Governor, the business before the Council renders the presence of such person desirable. Any person so summoned shall not have the right to vote in the Council.

Precedence.

42. After the Governor the Members of the Council of Sultans shall take precedence among themselves as follows—
First, the Sultans in order according to the dates of their recognition by His Majesty as Sultans of their respective States;
Second, Regents in order according to the dates of their appointments as Regents; and
Third, the Chief Secretary, the Attorney-General and the Financial Secretary in that order.

Quorum.

43. No business except that of adjournment shall be transacted by the Council if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than eight Members present in addition to the Governor.

===== Page 260 =====
44. The official languages of the Council of Sultans shall be Malay and English.

45. Subject to the provisions of this Order, the Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its proceedings and the despatch of business but no such Standing Rules and Orders shall have effect until they have been approved by the Governor.

46.—(1) The Sessions of the Council of Sultans shall be held at such times and places as the Governor shall from time to time, by Proclamation appoint.

(2) There shall be a session of the Council at least twice in every year.

PART VII.

STATE AND SETTLEMENT COUNCILS.

47. There shall be established a State Council for each of the Malay States, and a Settlement Council for each of the Settlements.

48. Each State Council and Settlement Council shall consist of the Resident Commissioner of the State or Settlement as Chairman and such ex officio Members, Nominated Official Members, Nominated Unofficial Members and Elected Members as may be prescribed.

49.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, it shall be lawful for a State Council or Settlement Council to make laws on any subject—
(a) which is declared by Order of the Governor in Council to be of a purely local nature in the State or Settlement; or
(b) in respect to which the Legislative Council shall have delegated powers of legislation to the State Council or Settlement Council concerned.

(2) Any law passed by a State Council or Settlement Council may, at any time, be repealed or altered by the Legislature of the Union, and shall, without any formal repeal, be void so far as it is repugnant to any law passed by such Legislature or to any proclamation, rule, regulation, by-law or order lawfully made under any such law.

(3) A State Council or Settlement Council shall exercise such powers of local administration as may from time to time be prescribed or allocated to it by the Governor in Council.

50. The Nominated Official Members of any State Council or Settlement Council shall be persons holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, and the Nominated Unofficial Members shall be persons not holding such office. Nominated Members shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

51. The Elected Members shall be persons not holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union and shall be elected in the manner prescribed.

===== Page 261 =====
Summoning of persons other than Members.

52. The Resident Commissioner may summon to any meeting of a State or Settlement Council any person, notwithstanding that such person may not be a Member of the Council, when, in the opinion of the Resident Commissioner, the business before the Council renders the presence of such person desirable. Any person so summoned shall be entitled to take part in the proceedings of the Council relating to the business in respect of which he is summoned as if he were a member of the Council, except that he shall not have the right to vote in the Council.

Tenure of office of Nominated Members.

53.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, a person appointed a Nominated Member shall vacate his seat at the expiration of three years from the date of his appointment, or on the dissolution of the Council, whichever is earlier, but may, if qualified, be again appointed from time to time.

(2) If any person is appointed a Temporary Member of a State Council or Settlement Council in accordance with the provisions of Section 59 of this Order and such appointment is immediately followed by his definitive appointment as a Nominated Member, the said period of three years shall be reckoned from the date of his appointment as a Temporary Member.

Tenure of Office of Elected Members.

54. Subject to the provisions of this Order, a person elected as an Elected Member shall vacate his seat at the expiration of three years from the date of his election or on dissolution of the Council, whichever is earlier, but may, if qualified, be again elected from time to time.

Qualifications for elected and nominated membership.

55. Subject to the provisions of this Order any person who is of the age of twenty-one years or upwards and who, the Governor is satisfied, is able to speak and (unless incapacitated by blindness or other physical cause) to read and write the English, or the Malay, language with a degree of proficiency sufficient to enable him to take an active part in the proceedings of the Council and who, in the case of a State Council, is a Malayan Union citizen, or, in the case of a Settlement Council, is a Malayan Union citizen or a British subject, shall be qualified to be a Nominated or an Elected Member of a State Council or Settlement Council, as the case may be, and no other person shall be qualified to be appointed or elected thereto, or, having been so appointed, or elected, shall sit or vote in such Council.

Disqualification for Membership.

56.—(1) A person shall be disqualified for nominated membership of any State Council or Settlement Council for any reason which would cause disqualification for Membership of the Legislative Council under the provisions of section 20 of this Order.

Provided that sub-section (4) of section 20 shall have effect for the purpose of this sub-section as if the words “or with the Government of any State or Settlement within the Union,” had been inserted before the words “for or on account of the public service,” where those words appear in that sub-section.

(2) A person shall be disqualified for Elected Membership of a State Council or Settlement Council for any reason which would cause disqualification for Membership of the Legislative Council under paragraph (1), (2) or (3) of section 20 of this Order, or

(a) if, being a party to, or a member of a firm or director or manager of a company which is a party to, any subsisting contract with the Government of, or with the Government of any State or Settlement

===== Page 262 =====
Within the Union, for or on account of the public service, or being otherwise interested in any such contract, he shall not have published within one month before the day of election, in the Gazette or in some newspaper circulating in the State or Settlement in which he seeks election, a notice setting out the nature of such contract and his interest, or the interest of such firm or company, therein; or

(b) if he is disqualified for membership of the Council under any prescribed provision for the time being in force in the State or Settlement concerned relating to offences connected with the election of Members.

57.—(1) The seat of a Nominated Member of a State Council or Settlement Council shall become vacant upon the occurrence of any event which, if he were an Official Member or Unofficial Member as the case may be, of the Legislative Council, and the State or Settlement Council were the Legislative Council, would cause the seat of such Member to become vacant under the provisions of sub-section (3) of section 21 of this Order: Provided that paragraph (c) of sub-section (3) of section 21 shall have effect for the purpose of this sub-section as if for the words “if appointed under the proviso to section 19” there were substituted the words “in the case of a member of a Settlement Council”.

(2) The seat of an Elected Member of a State or Settlement Council shall become vacant upon the occurrence of any event which if he were a Nominated Member of any such Council would cause his seat to become vacant under the provisions of sub-section (1) of this section, or if such Elected Member is disqualified for membership of the Council, under any prescribed provision for the time being in force in the State or Settlement concerned relating to offences connected with the election of Members.

(3) If an Unofficial Member or Elected Member shall be appointed temporarily to, or to act in, any office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, he shall not sit or vote in the Council so long as he continues to hold, or act in that office.

(4) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Nominated Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the State Council or Settlement Council concerned and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared, in manner aforesaid, again to be capable of discharging his said functions.

(5) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, suspend any Nominated Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the State Council or Settlement Council concerned. Every such suspension shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the State Council or Settlement Council concerned.

(6) Whenever the seat of a Member becomes vacant under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of this section, the vacancy shall forthwith be reported to the Governor in writing by the Clerk of the Council concerned.

===== Page 263 =====
Decision of questions as to Membership.

58.—(1) All questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain a Nominated Member of a State Council or Settlement Council shall be referred to and decided by the Governor in Council.

(2) All questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain an Elected Member shall be determined as may be prescribed.

Temporary Appointments.

59.—(1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in any State Council or Settlement Council as ex officio Members, or Nominated Official Members, or Nominated Unofficial Members, by reason of the fact that:

(a) an ex officio Member is lawfully discharging the functions of the Resident Commissioner; or

(b) one person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the ex officio Members; or

(c) a Nominated Member is lawfully discharging the functions of the office of Resident Commissioner or of an ex officio Member; or

(d) no person is lawfully discharging the functions of the office of an ex officio Member; or

(e) a Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or

(f) a Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in this Order, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or

(g) a Member is absent from the Union; or

(h) a Nominated Unofficial Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of his having been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union or to act in any such office;

the Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint a person to be a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) If the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Nominated Official Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as a Nominated Official Member; and if the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Nominated Unofficial Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as a Nominated Unofficial Member.

(3) Every person appointed to be a Temporary Member under this section shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Nominated Official Members, an Official Member;

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Nominated Unofficial Members, a Nominated Unofficial Member;

and, subject to the provisions of this section, the provisions of sections 53 and 57 of this Order shall apply accordingly:

Provided that in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed

===== Page 264 =====
shall not be regarded as an Official Member in computing the number of such Members prescribed in accordance with section 48 of this Order.

(4) Any appointment under this section may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment under this section shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of revocation of the appointment or when the vacancy shall cease to exist.

60. The Resident Commissioner, if present, shall preside at meetings of the State Council or Settlement Council and, in his absence, such Member of the Council as he may, in writing, appoint, or in the absence of that Member, or if no Member be so appointed, the Senior Member present shall preside.

61.—(1) After the Resident Commissioner, the Members of each State Council and Settlement Council shall take precedence among themselves as the Governor may specially assign, and in the absence of such assignment, as follows:

First, the ex officio Members in such order as may be prescribed;

Secondly, the Nominated Official Members definitively appointed, according to the priority of their appointments as such or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Resident Commissioner;

Thirdly, the Nominated Official Members temporarily appointed under section 59 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments, or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Resident Commissioner;

Fourthly, the Nominated Unofficial Members and Elected Members, according to the length of time during which they have been continuously Members of the Council; Members elected or appointed at the same time taking precedence among themselves as the Resident Commissioner may assign.

(2) For the purposes of this section—

(a) when the State Council or Settlement Council is dissolved, Members elected at the ensuing elections shall be deemed to have been elected by virtue of those elections, and Nominated Unofficial Members appointed to fill vacancies caused thereby shall be deemed to have been appointed, on the date on which the report of the first successful candidate for election is made to the Governor;

(b) paragraph (a) of this sub-section shall apply to the Members elected or appointed to a State Council or Settlement Council as first constituted under this Order as if such elections or appointments were consequent upon a dissolution of the Council; and

(c) in ascertaining the period during which a person has continuously been an Elected Member or a Nominated Unofficial Member of the Council no account shall be taken of any interval between the vacation by that person of his seat in the Council in consequence of the expiration of his tenure of office or a dissolution of the Council and the date of his re-election or re-appointment to fill a vacancy in the Council caused by that expiration of tenure or that dissolution.

===== Page 265 =====
Filling of Vacancies.

62. (1) Whenever the seat of a Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member becomes vacant, the vacancy shall be filled by appointment by the Governor.

(2) Whenever the seat of an Elected Member becomes vacant, a fresh election shall be held to fill the vacancy in accordance with such provisions as may be prescribed.

Voting.

63. Save as otherwise provided in this Order, all questions proposed for decision in the Council shall be determined by a majority of the votes of the Members present and voting. The Resident Commissioner shall not have an original vote, but if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, he shall have a casting vote. In the absence of the Resident Commissioner, the Member presiding shall have an original vote and also, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, a casting vote.

Assent to Bills.

Disallowance of Laws.

64. The provisions of sections 30 and 31 of this Order (which relate respectively to assent to Bills and disallowance of laws passed by the Legislative Council) shall apply to Bills and to laws passed by a State Council or Settlement Council.

Royal Instructions.

65. Subject to the provisions of this Order each State Council or Settlement Council shall, in the transaction of business and the passing of laws, conform as nearly as may be to the directions contained in any Instructions under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet which may from time to time be addressed to the Governor, and to any instructions of the Governor under the Public Seal which may from time to time be addressed to the Resident Commissioner, in that behalf.

Standing Orders.

66. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of such Instructions as aforesaid, each State Council or Settlement Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its own proceedings and the conduct of business and for the passing, intitling and numbering of Bills, and for the presentation thereof to the Governor for his assent, but no such Rules or Orders shall have effect unless and until they shall have been approved by the Governor.

Official Language.

67. The official languages of each State Council and Settlement Council shall be Malay and English.

Quorum.

68. No business except that of adjournment shall be transacted by a State or Settlement Council if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than one quarter of the Members present besides the Resident Commissioner or Member presiding.

Introduction of Bills.

69. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council, any Member may introduce any Bill or propose any motion for debate in, or may present any petition to, a State Council or Settlement Council, and the same shall be debated and disposed of according to the Standing Rules and Orders:

Provided that, except with the recommendation or consent of the Resident Commissioner signified thereto, the Council shall not proceed upon any Bill, amendment, motion or petition, which, in the opinion of the Resident Commissioner or of the presiding Member, would—

(a) dispose of, or charge any public revenue or public funds of the State or Settlement, or revoke or alter any disposition thereof or charge thereon, or impose, alter, or repeal any rate, tax or duty; or

===== Page 266 =====
(b) Suspend the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council or any of them.

70. The sessions of each State Council or Settlement Council shall be held at such times and places as the Resident Commissioner shall from time to time by Proclamation appoint. There shall be a session of the Council at least once every year, so that a period of twelve months shall not intervene between the last sitting in one Session and the first sitting in the next Session.

71.—(1) The Resident Commissioner may at any time, by Proclamation, prorogue or dissolve a State Council or Settlement Council.

(2) On dissolution, all Members shall vacate their seats and the Council shall be reconstituted by election and appointment in accordance with the provisions of this Order at such time, within three months of every dissolution, as the Governor shall by Proclamation appoint.

PART VIII.

SULTAN'S ADVISORY COUNCILS.

72. There shall be established for each of the Malay States a Council to be called the Sultan's Advisory Council.

73. Each Sultan's Advisory Council shall consist of the Sultan as President and such Members as the Sultan shall from time to time appoint.

74. The functions of each Sultan's Advisory Council shall be—

(a) to advise the Sultan on all matters affecting Muhammadan religion in the State;

(b) to advise the Sultan in the making of laws under this Part of this Order;

(c) to advise the Sultan on all matters which are referred to the Council by the Sultan or at the request of the Resident Commissioner with the approval of the Governor.

75.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, it shall be lawful for the Sultan of each of the Malay States, with the advice of the Sultan's Advisory Council of such State, to make laws the provisions of which relate solely to matters of Muhammadan religion and do not involve the imposition, collection or remission of any tax or tithe.

(2) Such laws shall have effect only within the State concerned.

(3) When any such Bill has been approved by a Sultan's Advisory Council, it shall be submitted to the Council of Sultans for approval by that Council pursuant to the provisions of section 40 of this Order. No Bill enacted by a Sultan with the advice of a Sultan's Advisory Council shall become a law until it shall have been approved by the Council of Sultans and assented to by the Sultan of the State concerned pursuant to the provisions of that section.

(4) A law assented to by the Sultan shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the date of such publication, or if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

===== Page 267 =====
Qualifications for Membership.

76. Subject to the provisions of this Order, any person who is of Malay race, professing the Muhammadan religion, and of the age of twenty-one years or upwards shall be qualified to be a Member of a Sultan’s Advisory Council, and no other person shall be qualified to be so appointed or, having been so appointed, shall sit or vote in such Council.

Disqualification for Membership.

77. A person shall be disqualified for membership of a Sultan’s Advisory Council for any reason which would cause disqualification for Membership of the Legislative Council under the provisions of paragraphs (1), (2) or (3) of section 20 of this Order.

Tenure of Office.

78. Subject to the provisions of this Order, a Member of a Sultan’s Advisory Council shall hold his seat in the Council during the pleasure of the Sultan of the State.

Presiding in Sultan’s Advisory Councils.

79. The Sultan of the State concerned, if present, shall preside at meetings of the Sultan’s Advisory Council and, in his absence, such Member of the Council as he may, in writing appoint, or in the absence of that Member or if no Member be so appointed, the senior Member present shall preside.

Precedence of Members.

80. The Members of each Sultan’s Advisory Council shall take precedence among themselves as the Sultan of the State concerned may assign.

Conflict.

81. In the event of any conflict between a law made under this Part and a law made under Part V, or Part VII or made or continued under Part IX, of this Order, the provisions of the last mentioned law shall prevail.

Standing Orders.

82. Subject to the provisions of this Order, each Sultan’s Advisory Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its own proceedings and the conduct of business and for the passing, intitulating and numbering of Bills, and for the presentation thereof to the Sultan for his assent.

Official language.

83. The official language of each Sultan’s Advisory Council shall be Malay.

Sessions.

84.—(1) The Sessions of each Sultan’s Advisory Council shall be held at such times and places as the Sultan shall from time to time appoint.

(2) There shall be a session of the Council once at least in every year.

PART IX.

TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS.

85.—(1) Until such time as Parts IV and V of this Order shall come into operation, it shall be lawful for the Governor to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Union.

(2) In making such laws the Governor shall consult the Advisory Council.

(3) Section 31 of this Order shall apply to any law made under this Section as it applies to a law assented to by the Governor.

===== Page 268 =====
86.—(1) There shall be an Advisory Council which shall consist of the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary and such other persons as the Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint; and such persons shall hold their places in the said Council during the Governor’s pleasure.

(2) The Governor alone shall be entitled to submit questions to the Advisory Council for their advice. The Governor may act in opposition to the advice given to him by the Members of the Advisory Council if he shall in any case consider it right so to do. In such case, it shall be competent to any Member of the Advisory Council to require that there be recorded on the Minutes any advice or opinion he may give upon the question and the grounds therefor.

(3) The Governor may regulate the procedure and practice of the Advisory Council in such manner as he shall see fit.

(4) The Governor may, by Proclamation in the Gazette, declare that this section shall cease to have effect, and thereupon this section shall cease to have effect accordingly on the date specified in the Proclamation.

87.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, the existing laws shall, except in so far as the same shall, in their application to the Union or to any part thereof, be repealed, amended or otherwise affected by or under any Act of Parliament, Order of His Majesty in Council or any law made under the provisions of this Order continue to have effect in the Union or, as the case may be, in that part thereof to which such law applied prior to the appointed day, but shall be construed subject to such modifications as may be necessary to bring them into conformity with the provisions of this Order.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section, the existing laws shall, except as aforesaid, in their application to any part of the Union, be construed, when the context admits, subject to the following modifications:

(a) references to the Colony of the Straits Settlements shall be construed as referring (but not exclusively) to the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang;

(b) references to the Federated Malay States shall be construed as references to the States of Negri Sembilan, Pahang, Perak and Selangor;

(c) references to the Governor or Governor in Council of the Colony of the Straits Settlements, or to the High Commissioner of the Malay States or to the Ruler of any Malay State or to any officer of, or authority, or body constituted in or for, the Straits Settlements or the Federated Malay States or any of the Malay States, shall be construed as references to the Governor or Governor in Council, or to the corresponding officer of, or authority or body constituted in or for the Union, as the case may be; and

(d) references to the Chief Justice or to any Court, Judge or Magistrate of the Straits Settlements or of the Federated Malay States or of any of the Malay States shall be construed as references to the Chief Justice or to the corresponding Court, Judge or Magistrate of the Union.

(3) The adaptations and modifications specified in the second column of the Second Schedule to this Order shall be made in the enactments mentioned in the first column of that Schedule.

===== Page 269 =====
(4) The enactments described in the First Schedule to the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890, shall apply to the Union as if the whole of the Union were a British Colony or Possession, but subject to the provisions of this Order and to the exceptions, adaptations, and modifications following, that is to say:

(i) The Governor is hereby substituted for the Governor of a Colony or British Possession, and the Supreme Court is hereby substituted for a Superior Court or Supreme Court, and for a Magistrate or Justice of the Peace, of a Colony or British Possession.

(ii) For the portions of the Merchant Shipping Acts, 1854 and 1867, referred to in the said Schedule, shall be substituted Part XIII of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894.

(iii) In section 51 of the Conveyancing (Scotland) Act, 1874, and any enactment for the time being in force amending the same, the High Court is substituted for a Court of Probate in a Colony.

(iv) For the purposes of Part II of the Fugitive Offenders Act, 1881, the Union, the Colony of Singapore, Sarawak, Brunei, North Borneo and Labuan shall be deemed to be one group of British possessions:

Provided that nothing in this sub-section contained shall be taken to extend to the Union the enactments mentioned in the Schedule to the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1913, or any of them.

(5) Where under the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894, or any amending Act, anything is authorised to be done by, to, or before a British Consular Officer, such thing may be done, in any place in the Union at which there is no Consular officer, by, to, or before such officer of the Government of the Union as the Governor may appoint.

(6) The Colonial Prisoners Removal Act, 1884, shall apply to and take effect within the Union as if the whole of the Union were a British Possession and part of His Majesty's dominions, subject as follows:

The Governor is hereby substituted for the Governor of a British Possession.

Validity of previous acts.

88. Subject to the express provisions of this Order, nothing in this Order shall affect the validity or future operation of any lawful act done in any territory now comprised in the Union by any person or authority before the appointed day.

Pending proceedings.

89. All proceedings commenced before the 15th day of February, 1942, in any Court of Justice in, or having jurisdiction in, any territory now comprised in the Union may be carried on in like manner as nearly as may be, as if this Order and the Act of 1946, had not been made or passed but in the corresponding Court of the Union, and any such proceeding may be amended in such manner as may appear necessary or proper in order to bring it into conformity with the provisions of this Order.

Crimes committed and causes of action arising prior to the appointed day.

90. Courts constituted for the Union shall have, within their respective powers, jurisdiction with respect to all offences (including offences against Proclamations issued by, or under the authority of, the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia) and causes of action committed or arising before the appointed day for which the accused might have been tried, or proceedings might have been had, within any of the Malay [POSSIBLY MISSING]

===== Page 270 =====
States or within either of the Settlements under the law (including the provisions of any such Proclamation) in force in the said State or in the Straits Settlements before the appointed day, and such jurisdiction shall be exercised in conformity with the law in force in the State or Settlement concerned at the date when the offence was committed or the cause of action arose and in accordance, as nearly as may be, with the procedure in force in Courts constituted under this Order.

91. Military Courts established in the Malay States or the Settlements by the British Military Administration by virtue of any Proclamation made by, or under the authority of the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia, in which proceedings have been commenced and are pending at the date of this Order shall be deemed to be lawfully constituted Courts with jurisdiction to continue and conclude such proceedings and to issue warrants for the custody of prisoners and the carrying out of sentences in accordance with such Proclamation and any Rules, Regulations or Orders made thereunder, after the appointed day. The powers and functions of a confirming authority or reviewing authority under any such Proclamation may be exercised by such person or persons as the Governor shall designate in that behalf.

92.—(1) In this section—

(i) "Malay States property" means property which, immediately before the appointed day, was vested in or was in the possession, or under the control or held on account of His Majesty, or the Ruler of any of the Malay States, or the Government of the Federated Malay States, or the Government of any of the Malay States, or any officer of any such Government for any of the purposes of any such Government;

(ii) "Straits Settlements property" means property which, immediately before the appointed day, was vested in, or was in the possession, or under the control, or held on account of His Majesty, or the Government of the Straits Settlements, or any officer of that Government, for any of the purposes of that Government; and

(iii) Any reference to property vested in any person or authority shall be construed as including a reference to any property in the possession, or under the control, or held on account, of that person or authority; and any direction that property shall be vested in any person or authority shall likewise be construed as including a direction, as the case may require, that the possession or control of property shall be transferred to, or that property shall be held on account of, that person or authority.

(2) Save as in this section otherwise provided, all Malay States property shall, as from the appointed day, vest in His Majesty, or in the appropriate officer of the Government of the Union, or in the person or body prescribed under sub-section (7) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Union.

(3) Save as in this section otherwise provided, all Straits Settlements property which was, immediately before the appointed day, either—

(a) immovable property situate in the Settlements or either of them; or

(b) vested solely for a purpose of the Government of the Straits Settlements which will, after the appointed day, be a purpose of the [POSSIBLY MISSING].

===== Page 271 =====
Government of the Union in relation to the Settlements or either of them;

shall vest in His Majesty or the appropriate officer of the Government of the Union, or the person or body prescribed under sub-section (7) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Union.

(4) Save as in this section otherwise provided any Straits Settlements property which was, immediately before the appointed day, vested for any purpose of the Government of the Straits Settlements which was common to the Settlements or either of them and to any other territory formerly included in the Straits Settlements but not included in the Union, shall be apportioned between the Union and such territory by agreement between the Governor and the Governor of such territory with the approval of a Secretary of State; or, in default of such agreement, shall be apportioned by order of a Secretary of State. Any such agreement or order may contain provisions for the assessment of values, for the perfecting of any transfer of property mentioned therein and for financial and other adjustments, and may contain such other provisions as may be considered necessary or expedient for carrying the apportionment into effect.

(5) Any Straits Settlements property apportioned to the Union under sub-section (4) of this section shall be vested in His Majesty or the appropriate officer of the Government of the Union, or the person or body prescribed under sub-section (7) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Union; and the Governor may make such vesting or other orders as may be considered necessary or expedient for carrying the provisions of this Section into effect, and for such purpose may appoint and empower persons to transfer property.

(6) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, any property which, immediately before the appointed day, was vested in the Ruler of any of the Malay States for any of the following purposes, shall continue to be vested in the Sultan of the State for the same purposes, that is to say—

(a) any property held by, or in trust for, or for the benefit of a Ruler for his official or personal use; or

(b) any building or land used for purposes of the Muhammadan religion, or property pertaining to the endowment of Muhammadan religious institutions;

and nothing in this section shall affect the use or enjoyment of any property vested in a Ruler or in His Majesty for any of the said purposes.

(7) The Governor may make regulations for determining, in cases of doubt, the person or body in whom property affected by this section shall be vested, and generally for giving effect to this section, and may, by Order, exclude any particular property from the operation of this section, or declare, for the removal of doubt, whether and in what manner, any particular property is affected thereby.

93.—(1) All liabilities incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Federated Malay States or of the Government of any of the Malay States for any of the purposes of any such Government shall be deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Union.

===== Page 272 =====
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section—

(a) Such liabilities shall include claims in respect of Loans issued, and Post Office Savings Bank deposits received, by the Government of the Federated Malay States or the Government of any of the Malay States.

(b) Claims to pensions, gratuities and other like allowances in respect of service under the Government of the Federated Malay States or the Government of any of the Malay States before the appointed day, whether arising before or after that day, shall be liabilities deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Union.

(3) All liabilities incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Straits Settlements solely for a purpose which will, after the appointed day, be a purpose of the Government of the Union in relation to the Settlements or either of them shall be deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Union.

(4) It shall be lawful for the Governor, with the approval of a Secretary of State, to make, vary, rescind and carry into effect, arrangements with the Governor of any territory formerly included in the Straits Settlements but not included in the Union for the payment to the Government of that territory from the funds of the Government of the Union, of contribution towards the sums necessary to defray such of the liabilities of the Government of the Straits Settlements as shall have been transferred, by any Order in Council or otherwise, to the Government of that territory, including liabilities for the service and repayment of Loans and War Savings Certificates issued. Post Office Savings Bank Deposits received and pensions allowances and gratuities payable, by the Government of the Straits Settlements. Such contributions shall be proportionate to the share of such liabilities which, a Secretary of State is satisfied, is properly attributable to the Settlements.

(5) Claims in respect of liabilities deemed, by virtue of this section, to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Union which, if the Act of 1946 had not been passed and this Order had not been made, might have been enforced against His Majesty in His Government of the Straits Settlements, or against the Government of the Federated Malay States or of any of the Malay States or against any officer of any such Government in his official capacity or against any department of any such Government in connection with the administration of the Settlements or either of them or of the Federated Malay States or of any Malay State, may be enforced in such manner as may be prescribed by laws for the time being in force or by any regulation made by the Governor under sub-section (6) of this section, against His Majesty in His Government of the Union or against the Government or the appropriate officer of the Government of the Union, as the case may be.

(6) The Governor may make regulations for determining in any case of doubt the person or body by or against whom claims may be enforced under this section and generally for giving effect thereto.

94. The provisions of sections 88 to 93 inclusive of this Order may be amended by laws made under Part V or under section 85 of this Order.

===== Page 273 =====
PART X.
MISCELLANEOUS.

Oath of Allegiance.

95. Except for the purpose of enabling this section to be complied with, no Member shall sit or vote on any Council constituted under Section 13 and Parts IV and VII of this Order until he shall have taken and subscribed before the Governor, or some person authorised by the Governor in that behalf, the Oath of Allegiance in the form set out in the First Schedule to this Order:

Provided that every person authorised by law to make an affirmation instead of taking an oath in legal proceedings may make such affirmation in like terms instead of the said oath.

Provisions necessary to give effect to the Order.

96.—(1) Provision may be made by laws made under this Order and, until such provision has been so made, by regulations made by the Governor, regulating any matter which by this Order or by Instructions under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet is to be prescribed.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section, provision may be made regulating the election of Elected Members to any State Council or Settlement Council constituted by this Order including provision for regulating any of the following matters, that is to say:

(a) the persons, associations or bodies by whom Members are to be elected;
(b) the holding of elections;
(c) the qualifications of voters;
(d) the registration of voters;
(e) the ascertainment of the qualifications of voters and candidates;
(f) offences in relation to elections including the trial and punishment thereof; and
(g) the disposal of election petitions and the determination of questions otherwise arising regarding membership of the Councils.

(3) Such regulations shall be published in the Gazette; and thereafter every such regulation shall take effect on the day of publication or on such other day as may be therein specified and shall have the force of law.

Unqualified persons sitting or voting.

97. Any person who—

(a) having been elected or appointed a member of any Council constituted by this Order, but not having been at the time of such election or appointment, qualified to be so elected or appointed, shall sit or vote in such Council; or

(b) shall sit or vote in such Council after his seat therein has become vacant or he has become disqualified from sitting or voting therein; knowing, or having reasonable grounds for knowing, that he was disqualified, or that his seat has become vacant, as the case may be, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding two hundred dollars for every day upon which he so sits or votes.

(2) The said penalty shall be recoverable by action in the Supreme Court at the suit of the Attorney General.

===== Page 274 =====
98. No Council constituted by this Order shall be disqualified from the transaction of business by reason of any vacancy among the Members, or by reason of the sitting or voting therein of any unqualified or disqualified person.

99. For the avoidance of doubts it is hereby declared that any law or regulation made under this Order may be made to operate retrospectively to any date.

100.—(1) If any difficulty shall arise in bringing into operation any of the provisions of this Order or in giving effect to the purposes thereof, a Secretary of State may, by Order, make such provision as seems to him necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing the difficulty and may by such Order amend or add to any provision of this Order:

Provided that no Order under this section shall be made later than the first day of January, 1948:

(2) Any Order under this section may be amended, added to, or revoked by a further Order, and may be given retrospective effect to a day not earlier than the appointed day.

101. Nothing in this Order shall affect the power of His Majesty in Council to make laws from time to time for the peace, order and good government of the Union.

E. C. E. Leadbitter.

FIRST SCHEDULE.

OATH OF ALLEGIANCE.

(Sections 6 and 95).

I, ..., do swear that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to His Majesty King George VI, His Heirs and Successors, according to Law. So help me God.

OATH FOR THE DUE EXECUTION OF THE OFFICE OF GOVERNOR.

I, ..., do swear that I will well and truly serve His Majesty King George VI, His Heirs and Successors, in the Office of Governor. So help me God.

THE SECOND SCHEDULE.

(Section 87 (3)).

Adaptation of Acts of Parliament.

Title of Act. | Adaptation.
--- | ---
The Finance Act, 1922 | Subsection (2) of section 45 of the Act shall have effect as if the words “Negri Sembilan, Pahang, Perak, Selangor” were substituted for the words “the Federated Malay States and” in line two.
The Pensions (Governors of Dominions, etc.) Act, 1929. | Section 9 of the Act shall have effect as if the words “Malayan Union” were substituted for the words “Malay States” in the last line.

Printed by His Majesty’s Stationery Office Press,
Drury Lane, W.C.2.

===== Page 275 =====
The following is a summary of the findings and recommendations:

1. Summary of Findings:
- The study found that the use of a combination of traditional and modern methods for monitoring and controlling the spread of the virus was effective.
- The results suggest that the use of a combination of traditional and modern methods for monitoring and controlling the spread of the virus was effective.

2. Recommendations:
- The study recommends that the use of a combination of traditional and modern methods for monitoring and controlling the spread of the virus be continued.
- The study recommends that the use of a combination of traditional and modern methods for monitoring and controlling the spread of the virus be continued.

3. Conclusion:
- The study concludes that the use of a combination of traditional and modern methods for monitoring and controlling the spread of the virus is effective.
- The study recommends that the use of a combination of traditional and modern methods for monitoring and controlling the spread of the virus be continued.

===== Page 276 =====
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE
The 27th day of March, 1946

Present

THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL.

WHEREAS by the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890, it was, amongst other things, enacted that it should be lawful for His Majesty the King to hold, exercise and enjoy any jurisdiction which His Majesty then had or might at any time thereafter have within a foreign country in the same and as ample a manner as if His Majesty had acquired that jurisdiction by the cession or conquest of territory:

AND WHEREAS His Majesty has full power and jurisdiction within the Malay States of Johore, Kedah, Kelantan, Negri Sembilan, Pahang, Perak, Perlis, Selangor and Trengganu (hereinafter referred to together as "the Malay States"):

AND WHEREAS, by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Act, 1946 (hereinafter called "the Act of 1946") it is, amongst other things, enacted that on such day as His Majesty may by Order in Council appoint (in that Act and in this Order referred to as "the appointed day") the Straits Settlements Act, 1866, shall be repealed and the Straits Settlements, that is to say the settlements and dependencies mentioned in the Schedule to the Act of 1946 (which comprise, among other settlements and dependencies, the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang (including province Wellesley) and the dependencies of the said settlements) shall cease to be a single colony and that on and after the appointed day each of the said settlements and dependencies shall be divided into such territories as His Majesty may by Order in Council direct and that those territories shall be governed either singly or in conjunction with such other territories (whether falling within the Schedule to the Act of 1946 or not) as may be specified in such Order and that such Order in Council may contain such other and consequential provisions as are contained in this Order:

AND WHEREAS by the Act of 1946 it is further enacted that the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945, shall apply in relation to each of the territories into which the said Settlements and dependencies are divided by Order under this Act as if it were a British settlement as so defined:

AND WHEREAS by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Order in Council, 1946, it is provided that the appointed day shall be the first day of April, 1946:

AND WHEREAS it is expedient to make provision for the administration, on and after the appointed day, of the Malay States in conjunction with the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang and the dependencies of the said Settlements:

===== Page 277 =====
NOW THEREFORE, His Majesty, by virtue and in exercise of the powers by the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890, and by the Act of 1946 and the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945, or otherwise in His Majesty vested, is pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council to order, and it is hereby ordered, as follows:

PART I.

PRELIMINARY.

1.—(1) This Order may be cited as the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946, and, except as to section 13 and Parts IV, V, VI, VII and VIII, shall come into operation on the appointed day.

(2) Section 13 and Parts IV, V, VI, VII and VIII of this Order shall come into operation on such day, or days respectively, within a period of six months from the appointed day, as may be fixed by the Governor by proclamation in the Gazette and the Governor may fix different days for different purposes and different provisions of that section and those Parts:

Provided that the said period of six months may be extended by the Governor, by Proclamation in the Gazette, for such further period as may be approved by a Secretary of State.

2.—(1) In this Order, unless the context otherwise requires—

“the Chief Justice” means the Chief Justice of the Union;

“the existing laws” means the common law, doctrines of equity and all Acts of Parliament, Orders in Council, Enactments of the Legislature of the Federated Malay States, Enactments of the Legislature of any Malay State, Ordinances of the Legislature of the Colony of the Straits Settlements, Proclamations issued by the High Commissioner of the Malay States or by the Ruler of any of the Malay States, or by the Governor of the Straits Settlements or by, or under the authority of, the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia (other than the Proclamations establishing the British Military Administration and delegating powers thereunder) and all Rules, Regulations and By-laws made thereunder and all other enactments and instruments having the force of law in the Union or in any part thereof immediately prior to the appointed day, whether the same were administered by the British Military Administration or not;

“the Gazette” means the official Gazette of the Union;

“the Governor” means the Governor and Commander-in-Chief for the time being of the Union and includes any officer for the time being administering the Government thereof, and, to the extent that a Deputy to the Governor is authorised to act, that Deputy;

“the Governor in Council” means the Governor acting after consultation with, but not necessarily in accordance with the advice of, the Executive Council of the Union nor necessarily in such Council assembled; and, until Section 13 of this Order is in operation, means the Governor;

“Malayan Union citizen” means a citizen of the Union within the meaning of any Order in Council or other enactment providing for Malayan Union Citizenship;

“meeting” means any sitting or sittings of a Council constituted under this Order commencing when the Council first meets after being

===== Page 278 =====
summoned at any time and terminating when the Council is adjourned sine die or at the conclusion of a session without adjournment;

“prescribed” means prescribed by any law made under this Order or by regulation made by the Governor under section 96;

“property” includes all property movable or immovable and all estates, interests, easements and rights, whether equitable or legal, in, to or out of property, and things in action and rights to revenue, taxes, duties and other dues; and “vested” in relation to property includes rights to property which are future or contingent and rights in reversion and remainder;

“the Public Seal” means the public seal of the Union and includes the official stamp mentioned in section 9 of this Order;

“session” means the sittings of any Council constituted under this Order commencing when the Council first meets after being so constituted, or after its prorogation or dissolution at any time, and terminating when the Council is prorogued or is dissolved without having been prorogued;

“the settlements” means the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang;

“the Settlement of Malacca” means the Town and Fort and Province of Malacca and all islands and places heretofore known or administered as part of the Settlement of Malacca, and the territorial waters adjacent thereto;

“the settlement of Penang” means Georgetown and the Island of Penang (or Prince of Wales’ Island) Province Wellesley and all islands and places heretofore known or administered as part of the Settlement of Penang, and the territorial waters adjacent thereto;

“Sultan” includes the Raja of Perlis and the Yang di peruan Besar of Negri Sembilan, and, during a Regency in any of the Malay States, means the Regent, or if there be a Council of Regency, the Member of that Council to whom is assigned the function in connection with which the term is used;

“the Supreme Court” means the Supreme Court of the Union;

“the Union” means the Malayan Union constituted by section 3 of this Order.

(2) For the purposes of this Order, when reference is made to a Sultan of any of the Malay States or to any public officer by the term designating his office, such reference means the Sultan for the time being of the State concerned, or the officer for the time being lawfully discharging the functions of that office, as the case may be.

(3) For the purposes of this Order, a person shall not be deemed to hold an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union by reason only that he is in receipt of a pension or other like allowance in respect of service under the Crown.

If it shall be declared by any law for the time being in force in the Union that an office shall not be an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union for all or any of the purposes of this Order, this Order shall have effect accordingly as if that law were enacted herein.

(4) The Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply for the interpretation of this Order as it applies for the interpretation of an Act of Parliament.

===== Page 279 =====
3. There shall be established a Union comprising the Malay States and the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang, to be governed and administered together and to be known as the Malayan Union.

PART II.

THE GOVERNOR AND EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.

Governor.

4. There shall be a Governor and Commander-in-Chief (hereinafter called "the Governor") in and over the Union, and appointments to the said office shall be made by Commission under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet.

Powers of Governor.

5. The Governor is hereby empowered and commanded to do all things that belong to his said office in accordance with this Order and such Commission as may be issued to him under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet and according to such Instructions as may from time to time be given to him under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet, or through a Secretary of State, and such Orders in Council and other laws as may from time to time be in force in the Union.

Publication of Governor's Commission and taking of oaths.

6. Every person appointed to fill the office of Governor shall, before entering on any of the duties of his office, cause the Commission appointing him to be Governor to be read and published at the seat of Government, in the presence of the Chief Justice or, in his absence, of some other Judge of the Supreme Court, and (if section 13 of this Order is in force) of such Members of the Executive Council of the Union as can conveniently attend; and shall take before them the Oath of Allegiance and the Oath for the due execution of the office of Governor in the forms set out in the First Schedule to this Order, which Oaths the Chief Justice or such other Judge as aforesaid shall administer.

Succession to Government.

7. (1) Whenever the office of Governor becomes vacant, or the Governor is absent from the Union, or the Governor is from any cause prevented from, or incapable of, performing the duties of his office, then such person as His Majesty may appoint under His Sign Manual and Signet or if there is no such person in the Union so appointed and capable of discharging the duties of administration, the senior Member of the Executive Council then in the Union and so capable, shall during His Majesty's pleasure, administer the Government of the Union, first taking, in manner in this Order prescribed, the oaths directed by this Order to be taken by the Governor. Thereupon such person or Member shall, subject, if he is so appointed as aforesaid, to the terms of his appointment, do, during His Majesty's pleasure, all things that belong to the Office of Governor as provided in this Order:

Provided that the Governor or any other person or Member as aforesaid shall not be regarded as absent from the Union or prevented from or incapable of performing the duties of his office for the purposes of this Order during his passage from one part of the Union to another or during a visit to the Colony of Singapore or when there is a subsisting appointment of a Deputy under the next succeeding section of this Order.

(2) Any such person as aforesaid shall not continue to administer the Government after the Governor or some other person having a prior right to administer the same has notified him that he is about to assume or resume the administration.

===== Page 280 =====
8.—(1) Whenever the Governor has occasion to be absent from the seat of Government but not from the Union or to be absent from the Union for a period which he has reason to believe will be of short duration, or whenever by reason of illness which he has reason to believe will be of short duration he considers it desirable so to do, he may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint any person in the Union to be his Deputy during such absence or illness, and in that capacity to exercise and perform for and on behalf of the Governor during such absence or illness all such functions of the Governor as shall be specified in such Instrument.

(2) By the appointment of a Deputy as aforesaid the power and authority of the Governor shall not be abridged, altered, or in any way affected otherwise than as His Majesty may at any time hereafter think proper to direct, and every such Deputy shall conform to and observe all such instructions as the Governor shall from time to time address to him for his guidance.

(3) Any appointment under this section may at any time be revoked by the Governor or by a Secretary of State and, in case of absence as aforesaid, shall cease and determine upon the return of the Governor to the seat of Government or to the Union, as the case may be.

9. The Governor shall keep and use the Public Seal of the Union for sealing all things whatsoever that shall pass the said Seal. Until a Public Seal shall be provided for the Union, an official stamp bearing the inscription "Malayan Union. Public Seal" may be used as the Public Seal.

10. Subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force in the Union and of any Instructions from time to time given to the Governor under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, the Governor, in His Majesty's name and on His Majesty's behalf, may make and execute, under the Public Seal, grants and dispositions of any lands within the Union which may be lawfully granted or disposed of by His Majesty.

11. Subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force in the Union and to any Instructions from time to time given to him by His Majesty through a Secretary of State, the Governor for cause shown to his satisfaction, may dismiss or suspend from the exercise of his office any person holding any public office within the Union, or may take such other disciplinary action as may seem to him desirable.

12. When any offence has been committed for which the offender may be tried within the Union, the Governor may, as he shall see occasion, in His Majesty's name and on His Majesty's behalf, grant a pardon to any accomplice in such offence who shall give such information as shall lead to the conviction of the principal offender, or any one of such offenders if more than one; and further may grant to any offender convicted of any such offence in any Court within the Union, a pardon, either free or subject to lawful conditions, or any respite, either indefinite or for such period as the Governor may think fit, of the execution of any sentence passed on such offender, and may remit the whole or any part of such sentence or of any penalties or forfeitures otherwise due to His Majesty.

13. There shall be an Executive Council for the Union and the said Council shall consist of such persons as His Majesty shall direct by

===== Page 281 =====
Instructions under His Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, and all such persons shall hold their places in the Executive Council during His Majesty’s pleasure and, subject thereto, for such period and upon such conditions as may be specified in any such Instructions.

PART III.

COURTS.

14.—(1) There shall be in and for the Union a Court of unlimited civil and criminal jurisdiction to be called the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court shall be a Court of Record and may consist of a High Court and a Court of Appeal.

(2) There shall be a Chief Justice appointed by His Majesty by Letters Patent under the Great Seal of the Realm, or by the Governor by Letters Patent under the Public Seal in accordance with such instructions as he may receive from His Majesty through a Secretary of State, and as many Judges of the Supreme Court, appointed similarly or in manner prescribed, as may from time to time be required. The Chief Justice and Judges of the Supreme Court shall hold office during His Majesty’s pleasure.

(3) The constitution, powers and procedure of the Supreme Court and provisions relating to appeals therefrom to His Majesty in Council and provisions relating to the qualifications, order of precedence, duties and powers of Judges, and appointment of temporary Judges, may, subject to the provisions of this Order, be prescribed by laws made under this Order.

15.—(1) Courts subordinate to the Supreme Court and Courts of special jurisdiction may be constituted by laws made under this Order.

(2) Provision may be made by such laws for the hearing and determining of appeals from any such Court by the Supreme Court or otherwise.

PART IV.

LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.

16.—(1) There shall be a Legislative Council in and for the Union constituted in accordance with the provisions of this Order.

(2) The Council shall consist of the Governor as President, three ex officio Members, and such Official Members, not exceeding eighteen and such Unofficial Members, not exceeding twenty-one, as His Majesty shall direct by Instructions under His Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State.

Ex officio Members.

17. The ex officio Members shall be the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General and the Financial Secretary.

Official Members.

18. The Official Members shall be persons holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, and shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of His Majesty’s instructions through a Secretary of State.

Unofficial Members.

19. The Unofficial Members shall be Malayan Union citizens of the age of twenty-one years or upwards not holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, who, the Governor is satisfied, are able

===== Page 282 =====
To speak and (unless incapacitated by blindness or other physical cause) to read and write the English language with a degree of proficiency sufficient to enable them to take an active part in the proceedings of the Council. Unofficial Members shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of His Majesty's Instructions through a Secretary of State:

Provided that the Governor may, for cause shown to his satisfaction, appoint a British subject who is not a Malayan Union citizen to be an Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council.

20. No person shall be capable of being appointed an Official or Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council or, having been appointed, shall sit and vote therein, who at the time of appointment—

(1) is a person found or declared to be of unsound mind under any law in force in the Union; or

(2) has, in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection, been sentenced to death or to imprisonment (by whatever name called) for a term exceeding six months and has not either suffered the punishment to which he was sentenced or such other punishment as may by competent authority have been substituted therefor or received a free pardon; or

(3) is an undischarged bankrupt; or

(4) is a party to, or a member of a firm or a director or manager of a company which is a party to, any subsisting contract with the Government of the Union, for or on account of the public service, or is otherwise to his knowledge interested in any such contract, and shall not have disclosed to the Governor the nature of such contract and his interest, or the interest of any such firm or company, therein.

21.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, every Official Member or Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council shall hold his seat in the Legislative Council during His Majesty's pleasure and, subject thereto, shall cease to be a Member at the end of three years from the date of the Instrument by which he is appointed, or at such earlier date as may be provided by such Instrument, or previously if his seat shall become vacant under the provisions of this Order.

(2) If a person is appointed a Temporary Member of the Legislative Council in accordance with the provisions of Section 22 of this Order and such appointment is immediately followed by his definitive appointment as a Member, the said period of three years shall be reckoned from the date of his appointment as a Temporary Member.

(3) The seat of a Member of the Legislative Council (other than an ex officio Member) shall become vacant—

(a) upon his death; or

(b) if he shall, without the leave of the Governor, be absent from two consecutive meetings of the Council; or

(c) if he shall cease to be a Malayan Union citizen, or, if appointed under the proviso to section 19, a British subject, or shall take any oath, or make any declaration or acknowledgment of allegiance, obedience or adherence to any foreign Power or State; or shall do, concur in or adopt any act done with the intention that he shall become a subject or citizen of any foreign Power or State; or

===== Page 283 =====
(d) if he shall be declared a bankrupt under any law in force in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection; or

(e) if in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection, he shall be sentenced to death, or imprisonment, by whatever name called, for a term exceeding six months; or

(f) if he shall be found or declared to be of unsound mind under any law in force in the Union; or

(g) if he shall, by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor, resign his seat in the Council; or

(h) if, being an Official Member, he shall cease to hold office of emolument under the Crown in the Union; or

(i) if, being an Unofficial Member, he shall be appointed permanently to any such office; or

(j) if, being an Unofficial Member, he shall, without the approval of the Governor, become a party to, or if any firm in which he is a partner, or any company of which he is a director or manager, shall become a party to, or if he shall be otherwise interested in, any contract with the Government of the Union for or on account of the public service and shall not, before the making of the contract, have disclosed to the Governor the nature of such contract and his interest or the interest of any such firm or company therein.

(4) If an Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council shall be appointed temporarily to any office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, or shall be appointed to act in any such office, he shall not sit or vote in the Legislative Council so long as he continues to hold or to act in that office.

(5) Any person vacating a seat as a Member of the Legislative Council may, if qualified, be again appointed as a Member from time to time.

(6) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Official Member or Unofficial Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council, and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared, in manner aforesaid, to be again capable of discharging his said functions.

(7) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, suspend any Official Member or Unofficial Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the Council. Every such suspension shall forthwith be reported by the Governor to His Majesty through a Secretary of State and shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal or by His Majesty through a Secretary of State, or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the Legislative Council.

(8) All questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain an Official or Unofficial Member shall be referred to and decided by the Governor in Council, whose decision shall be final and shall not be called in question in any Court in the Union.

22.—(1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Legislative Council as ex officio Members, or Official Members or Unofficial Members, by reason of the fact that—

(a) an ex officio Member is administering the Government of the Union; or

===== Page 284 =====
(b) One person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the three officers specified in section 17 of this Order; or
(c) No person is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or
(d) An Official Member is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or
(e) The seat of an Official or Unofficial Member is vacant for any cause other than a dissolution of the Council; or
(f) An Official or Unofficial Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in this Order, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or
(g) An Official or Unofficial Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or
(h) A Member is absent from the Union; or
(i) An Unofficial Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of his having been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union or to act in any such office;

the Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint a person to be a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) If the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Official Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as an Official Member; and if the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Unofficial Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as an Unofficial Member.

(3) Every person appointed to be a Temporary Member under this section shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—

(a) In the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Official Members, an Official Member;

(b) In the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Unofficial Members, an Unofficial Member;

and, subject to the provisions of this section, the provisions of section 21 of this Order shall apply accordingly:

Provided that, in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed shall not be regarded as an Official Member in computing the number of such Members for the purposes of sub-section (2) of section 16 of this Order.

(4) The Governor shall forthwith report every such temporary appointment to His Majesty through a Secretary of State. Any such appointment may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be disallowed by His Majesty through a Secretary of State or revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment under this section shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of disallowance by His Majesty or of revocation by the Governor, or on super-session of the appointment by the definitive appointment of a person to fill the vacancy, or when the vacancy shall otherwise cease to exist.

===== Page 285 =====
Summoning of public officers.

23. The Governor may summon to any meeting of the Legislative Council any person holding public office under the Crown in the Union, notwithstanding that such person may not be a Member of the Council, when, in the opinion of the Governor, the business before the Council renders the presence of such person desirable. Any person so summoned shall be entitled to take part in the proceedings of the Council relating to the business in respect of which he is summoned as if he were a Member of the Council, except that he shall not have the right to vote in the Council.

Governor to preside.

24. The Governor, if present, shall preside at meetings of the Council, and, in his absence, such Member as the Governor may in writing appoint or, in the absence of such Member, or if no Member be so appointed, the senior Member of Council actually present shall preside.

Quorum.

25. No business except that of adjournment shall be transacted by the Council if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than one quarter of the Members present besides the Governor or other Member presiding.

Precedence of Members.

26. After the Governor, the Members of the Council shall take precedence as His Majesty may specially assign or, if precedence be not so assigned, as follows:

First, the ex officio Members in the order in which they are mentioned in section 17 of this Order;

Secondly, the Official Members appointed under section 18 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments as such, or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Thirdly, Official Members temporarily appointed under section 22 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Fourthly, the Unofficial Members appointed under section 19 of this Order according to the priority of their appointments as such, or if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Fifthly, the Unofficial Members temporarily appointed under section 22 of this Order according to the priority of their appointments or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor:

Provided that when a Member is re-appointed to fill a vacancy caused by the termination of his own term of office the date from which he has been continuously a Member of the Council (any interval between such termination and re-appointment being disregarded) shall be regarded as the date of his appointment for the purposes of this section.

PART V.

LEGISLATION AND PROCEDURE IN LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.

Power to make laws.

27. Subject to the provisions of this Order, it shall be lawful for the Governor, with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council, to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Union.

Voting.

28. Save as otherwise provided in this Order, all questions proposed for decision in the Council shall be determined by a majority of the

===== Page 286 =====
Votes of the Members present and voting. The Governor shall not have an original vote, but, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, he shall have a casting vote. In the absence of the Governor, the Member presiding shall have an original vote and also, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, a casting vote.

29.—(1) If the Governor shall consider that it is expedient in the interests of public order, public faith or good government that any Bill introduced, or any motion proposed for decision in the Council shall have effect, then if the Council fail to pass such a Bill or motion, within such time and in such form as the Governor may think reasonable and expedient, the Governor, at any time in his discretion, may, notwithstanding any provisions of this Order or of any Standing Rules or Orders of the Council, declare that such Bill or motion shall have effect as if it had been passed by the Council, either in the form in which it was so introduced or proposed or with such amendments as the Governor shall think fit which have been moved or proposed in the Council or in any Committee thereof; and thereupon the said Bill or motion shall have effect as if it had been so passed, and, in the case of any such Bill, the provisions of this Order relating to assent to Bills and disallowance of laws shall apply accordingly.

(2) In this section the expressions "public order, public faith or good government" shall, without prejudice to their generality, include the following:

(a) the responsibility of the Union as a component part of the British Empire including foreign relations and relations with other parts of the British Empire;

(b) all questions relating to defence, including provision, construction, maintenance and use of defence works, areas and communications;

(c) subjects upon which, in the opinion of the Governor or of a Secretary of State, it is necessary to secure uniformity in legislation between the Union and the Colony of Singapore; and

(d) all matters pertaining to the creation or abolition of any public office and to the appointment, salary or other conditions of service of any public officer or officers.

(3) The Governor shall forthwith report to a Secretary of State every case in which he shall make any such declaration as is mentioned in sub-section (1) of this section and the reason therefor.

(4) If any Member of the Legislative Council objects to any declaration made under this section, he may, within seven days of the making thereof, submit to the Governor a statement in writing of his reasons for so objecting, and a copy of such statement shall, if furnished by such Member, be forwarded by the Governor as soon as practicable to a Secretary of State.

(5) Any such declaration other than a declaration relating to a Bill, may be revoked by a Secretary of State, and the Governor shall notify such revocation in the Gazette; and from the date of such notification any motion which shall have had effect by virtue of the declaration revoked shall cease to have effect, and the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 38 of the Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply to such revocation as they apply to the repeal of an Act of Parliament.

===== Page 287 =====
30.—(1) No Bill shall become a law until either the Governor shall assent thereto in His Majesty’s name and on His Majesty’s behalf, and shall sign the same in token of assent, or His Majesty shall give his assent thereto through a Secretary of State.

(2) When a Bill is presented to the Governor for his assent, he shall, according to his discretion, but subject to the provisions of this Order and of any Instructions addressed to him under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, declare that he assents or refuses to assent thereto, or that he reserves the Bill for the signification of His Majesty’s pleasure.

(3) A law assented to by the Governor shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the date of such publication, or, if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment (including any enactment in force at the commencement of this Order) that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

(4) A Bill reserved for the signification of His Majesty’s pleasure shall become a law so soon as His Majesty shall have given His assent thereto, through a Secretary of State, and the Governor shall have signified such assent by Proclamation in the Gazette. Every such law shall come into operation on the date of such Proclamation or, if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment (including any enactment in force at the commencement of this Order) that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

31.—(1) Any law to which the Governor shall have given his assent may be disallowed by His Majesty through a Secretary of State.

(2) Whenever any law has been disallowed by His Majesty, the Governor shall cause notice of such disallowance to be published in the Gazette.

(3) Every law so disallowed shall cease to have effect as soon as notice of such disallowance shall be published as aforesaid. Thereafter any enactment repealed or amended by such law shall have effect as if such law had not been made, but, save as aforesaid, the provisions of subsection (2) of section 38 of the Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply to such disallowance as they apply to the repeal of an Act of Parliament.

32. Subject to the provisions of this Order, the Governor and the Legislative Council shall, in the transaction of business and the passing of laws, conform as nearly as may be to the directions contained in any Instructions under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet which may from time to time be addressed to the Governor in that behalf.

33. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of such Instructions as aforesaid, the Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its own proceedings and the conduct of business and for the passing, intitulating and numbering of Bills, and for the presentation thereof to the Governor for his assent, but no such Rules or Orders shall have effect unless and until they have been approved by the Governor.

34. The official language of the Council shall be English.

35. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council, any Member may introduce any Bill or

===== Page 288 =====
Propose any motion for debate in, or may present any petition to, the Council, and the same shall be debated and disposed of according to the Standing Rules and Orders:

Provided that, except with the recommendation or consent of the Governor signified thereto, the Council shall not proceed upon any Bill, amendment, motion or petition, which, in the opinion of the Governor or of the presiding Member, would—

(a) dispose of, or charge any public revenue or public funds of the Union, or revoke or alter any disposition thereof or charge thereon, or impose, alter, or repeal any rate, tax or duty; or

(b) suspend the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council or any of them.

36.—(1) The sessions of the Legislative Council shall be held at such times and places as the Governor shall from time to time by Proclamation appoint.

(2) There shall be a session of the Council once at least in every year, so that a period of twelve months shall not intervene between the last sitting in one Session and the first sitting in the next Session.

37. The Governor may at any time, by Proclamation, prorogue the Legislative Council.

PART VI.

THE COUNCIL OF SULTANS.

38. There shall be established for the Union a Council to be called the Council of Sultans.

39.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order the Council of Sultans shall consist of the Governor as President and the following Members:

(1) His Highness the Sultan of Johore;
(2) His Highness the Sultan of Pahang;
(3) His Highness the Yang di per Tuan Besar of Negri Sembilan;
(4) His Highness the Sultan of Perak;
(5) His Highness the Sultan of Selangor;
(6) His Highness the Sultan of Kedah;
(7) His Highness the Raja of Perlis;
(8) His Highness the Sultan of Kelantan;
(9) His Highness the Sultan of Trengganu;
(10) The Chief Secretary;
(11) The Attorney-General; and
(12) The Financial Secretary.

(2) During a Regency in any of the Malay States, the Regent or, if there be a Council of Regency, such Member of that Council as the Council of Regency may assign, shall be a Member of the Council of Sultans in the place of the Sultan of the State.

40.—(1) The functions of the Council of Sultans shall be—

(a) to consider legislation, relating solely to matters of Muhammadan religion, which the Sultan’s Advisory Council in any State has approved for enactment; and

===== Page 289 =====
(b) To advise the Governor on any matter which he may refer to the Council for discussion, and on any matter which any Sultan may propose for discussion.

(2) Subject as hereinafter provided, every Bill relating solely to matters of Muhammadan religion approved by a Sultan’s Advisory Council in any State under the provisions of section 75 of this Order shall, after submission to the Council of Sultans, be referred by that Council to a Committee (in this section called "the Muhammadan Legislation Committee") consisting of the Muhammadan Members of the Council of Sultans under the chairmanship of the senior Sultan present. The Muhammadan Legislation Committee shall consider the Bill and shall report approval or disapproval thereof to the Council of Sultans, and, in case of disapproval, shall record the grounds of disapproval. Any such Bill which is approved by the Muhammadan Legislation Committee shall be approved by the Council of Sultans:

Provided that no Bill shall be received by the Council of Sultans or be referred to, or considered by the Muhammadan Legislation Committee, unless it be accompanied by a certificate from the Attorney-General certifying that, in his opinion, the Bill complies with sub-section (1) of section 75 of this Order, and does not conflict with any law in force in the State concerned other than a law relating solely to matters of Muhammadan religion, which is to be repealed or modified by the Bill.

(3) A Bill approved by the Council of Sultans shall be returned by the Clerk of that Council to the Clerk of the Sultan’s Advisory Council concerned with an intimation of such approval. Thereafter, the Sultan of the State concerned may assent thereto, and, upon such assent, the law shall come into operation as provided in section 75 of this Order.

(4) Any Bill disapproved by the Muhammadan Legislation Committee shall be disapproved by the Council of Sultans and shall be returned by the Clerk of that Council to the Clerk of the Sultan’s Advisory Council concerned, together with the grounds of disapproval. Any Bill so returned may be altered by the Sultan’s Advisory Council concerned and submitted again for consideration by the Council of Sultans.

(5) In this section the expression "senior Sultan" means the Sultan having precedence under section 42 of this Order.

Summoning of persons not Members.

41. The Governor may summon to any meeting of the Council of Sultans any person holding public office under the Crown in the Union, notwithstanding that such person may not be a member of the Council, when, in the opinion of the Governor, the business before the Council renders the presence of such person desirable. Any person so summoned shall not have the right to vote in the Council.

Precedence.

42. After the Governor the Members of the Council of Sultans shall take precedence among themselves as follows—
First, the Sultans in order according to the dates of their recognition by His Majesty as Sultans of their respective States;
Second, Regents in order according to the dates of their appointments as Regents; and
Third, the Chief Secretary, the Attorney-General and the Financial Secretary in that order.

Quorum.

43. No business except that of adjournment shall be transacted by the Council if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than eight Members present in addition to the Governor.

===== Page 290 =====
44. The official languages of the Council of Sultans shall be Malay and English.

45. Subject to the provisions of this Order, the Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its proceedings and the despatch of business but no such Standing Rules and Orders shall have effect until they have been approved by the Governor.

46.—(1) The Sessions of the Council of Sultans shall be held at such times and places as the Governor shall from time to time, by Proclamation appoint.

(2) There shall be a session of the Council at least twice in every year.

PART VII.

STATE AND SETTLEMENT COUNCILS.

47. There shall be established a State Council for each of the Malay States, and a Settlement Council for each of the Settlements.

48. Each State Council and Settlement Council shall consist of the Resident Commissioner of the State or Settlement as Chairman and such ex officio Members, Nominated Official Members, Nominated Unofficial Members and Elected Members as may be prescribed.

49.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, it shall be lawful for a State Council or Settlement Council to make laws on any subject—
(a) which is declared by Order of the Governor in Council to be of a purely local nature in the State or Settlement; or
(b) in respect to which the Legislative Council shall have delegated powers of legislation to the State Council or Settlement Council concerned.

(2) Any law passed by a State Council or Settlement Council may, at any time, be repealed or altered by the Legislature of the Union, and shall, without any formal repeal, be void so far as it is repugnant to any law passed by such Legislature or to any proclamation, rule, regulation, by-law or order lawfully made under any such law.

(3) A State Council or Settlement Council shall exercise such powers of local administration as may from time to time be prescribed or allocated to it by the Governor in Council.

50. The Nominated Official Members of any State Council or Settlement Council shall be persons holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, and the Nominated Unofficial Members shall be persons not holding such office. Nominated Members shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

51. The Elected Members shall be persons not holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union and shall be elected in the manner prescribed.

===== Page 291 =====
Summoning of persons other than Members.

52. The Resident Commissioner may summon to any meeting of a State or Settlement Council any person, notwithstanding that such person may not be a Member of the Council, when, in the opinion of the Resident Commissioner, the business before the Council renders the presence of such person desirable. Any person so summoned shall be entitled to take part in the proceedings of the Council relating to the business in respect of which he is summoned as if he were a member of the Council, except that he shall not have the right to vote in the Council.

Tenure of office of Nominated Members.

53.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, a person appointed a Nominated Member shall vacate his seat at the expiration of three years from the date of his appointment, or on the dissolution of the Council, whichever is earlier, but may, if qualified, be again appointed from time to time.

(2) If any person is appointed a Temporary Member of a State Council or Settlement Council in accordance with the provisions of Section 59 of this Order and such appointment is immediately followed by his definitive appointment as a Nominated Member, the said period of three years shall be reckoned from the date of his appointment as a Temporary Member.

Tenure of Office of Elected Members.

54. Subject to the provisions of this Order, a person elected as an Elected Member shall vacate his seat at the expiration of three years from the date of his election or on dissolution of the Council, whichever is earlier, but may, if qualified, be again elected from time to time.

Qualifications for elected and nominated membership.

55. Subject to the provisions of this Order any person who is of the age of twenty-one years or upwards and who, the Governor is satisfied, is able to speak and (unless incapacitated by blindness or other physical cause) to read and write the English, or the Malay, language with a degree of proficiency sufficient to enable him to take an active part in the proceedings of the Council and who, in the case of a State Council, is a Malayan Union citizen, or, in the case of a Settlement Council, is a Malayan Union citizen or a British subject, shall be qualified to be a Nominated or an Elected Member of a State Council or Settlement Council, as the case may be, and no other person shall be qualified to be appointed or elected thereto, or, having been so appointed, or elected, shall sit or vote in such Council.

Disqualification for Membership.

56.—(1) A person shall be disqualified for nominated membership of any State Council or Settlement Council for any reason which would cause disqualification for Membership of the Legislative Council under the provisions of section 20 of this Order.

Provided that sub-section (4) of section 20 shall have effect for the purpose of this sub-section as if the words “or with the Government of any State or Settlement within the Union,” had been inserted before the words “for or on account of the public service,” where those words appear in that sub-section.

(2) A person shall be disqualified for Elected Membership of a State Council or Settlement Council for any reason which would cause disqualification for Membership of the Legislative Council under paragraph (1), (2) or (3) of section 20 of this Order, or

(a) if, being a party to, or a member of a firm or director or manager of a company which is a party to, any subsisting contract with the Government of, or with the Government of any State or Settlement

===== Page 292 =====
Within the Union, for or on account of the public service, or being otherwise interested in any such contract, he shall not have published within one month before the day of election, in the Gazette or in some newspaper circulating in the State or Settlement in which he seeks election, a notice setting out the nature of such contract and his interest, or the interest of such firm or company therein; or

(b) if he is disqualified for membership of the Council under any prescribed provision for the time being in force in the State or Settlement concerned relating to offences connected with the election of Members.

57.—(1) The seat of a Nominated Member of a State Council or Settlement Council shall become vacant upon the occurrence of any event which, if he were an Official Member or Unofficial Member as the case may be, of the Legislative Council, and the State or Settlement Council were the Legislative Council, would cause the seat of such Member to become vacant under the provisions of sub-section (3) of section 21 of this Order: Provided that paragraph (c) of sub-section (3) of section 21 shall have effect for the purpose of this sub-section as if for the words “if appointed under the proviso to section 19” there were substituted the words “in the case of a member of a Settlement Council”.

(2) The seat of an Elected Member of a State or Settlement Council shall become vacant upon the occurrence of any event which if he were a Nominated Member of any such Council would cause his seat to become vacant under the provisions of sub-section (1) of this section, or if such Elected Member is disqualified for membership of the Council, under any prescribed provision for the time being in force in the State or Settlement concerned relating to offences connected with the election of Members.

(3) If an Unofficial Member or Elected Member shall be appointed temporarily to, or to act in, any office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, he shall not sit or vote in the Council so long as he continues to hold, or act in that office.

(4) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Nominated Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the State Council or Settlement Council concerned and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared, in manner aforesaid, again to be capable of discharging his said functions.

(5) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, suspend any Nominated Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the State Council or Settlement Council concerned. Every such suspension shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the State Council or Settlement Council concerned.

(6) Whenever the seat of a Member becomes vacant under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of this section, the vacancy shall forthwith be reported to the Governor in writing by the Clerk of the Council concerned.

===== Page 293 =====
Decision of questions as to Membership.

58.—(1) All questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain a Nominated Member of a State Council or Settlement Council shall be referred to and decided by the Governor in Council.

(2) All questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain an Elected Member shall be determined as may be prescribed.

Temporary Appointments.

59.—(1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in any State Council or Settlement Council as ex officio Members, or Nominated Official Members, or Nominated Unofficial Members, by reason of the fact that:

(a) an ex officio Member is lawfully discharging the functions of the Resident Commissioner; or

(b) one person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the ex officio Members; or

(c) a Nominated Member is lawfully discharging the functions of the office of Resident Commissioner or of an ex officio Member; or

(d) no person is lawfully discharging the functions of the office of an ex officio Member; or

(e) a Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or

(f) a Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in this Order, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or

(g) a Member is absent from the Union; or

(h) a Nominated Unofficial Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of his having been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union or to act in any such office;

the Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint a person to be a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) If the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Nominated Official Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as a Nominated Official Member; and if the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Nominated Unofficial Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as a Nominated Unofficial Member.

(3) Every person appointed to be a Temporary Member under this section shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Nominated Official Members, an Official Member;

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Nominated Unofficial Members, a Nominated Unofficial Member;

and, subject to the provisions of this section, the provisions of sections 53 and 57 of this Order shall apply accordingly:

Provided that in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed

===== Page 294 =====
shall not be regarded as an Official Member in computing the number of such Members prescribed in accordance with section 48 of this Order.

(4) Any appointment under this section may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment under this section shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of revocation of the appointment or when the vacancy shall cease to exist.

60. The Resident Commissioner, if present, shall preside at meetings of the State Council or Settlement Council and, in his absence, such Member of the Council as he may, in writing, appoint, or in the absence of that Member, or if no Member be so appointed, the Senior Member present shall preside.

61. After the Resident Commissioner, the Members of each State Council and Settlement Council shall take precedence among themselves as the Governor may specially assign, and in the absence of such assignment, as follows:

First, the ex officio Members in such order as may be prescribed;

Secondly, the Nominated Official Members definitively appointed, according to the priority of their appointments as such or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Resident Commissioner;

Thirdly, the Nominated Official Members temporarily appointed under section 59 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments, or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Resident Commissioner;

Fourthly, the Nominated Unofficial Members and Elected Members, according to the length of time during which they have been continuously Members of the Council; Members elected or appointed at the same time taking precedence among themselves as the Resident Commissioner may assign.

(2) For the purposes of this section—

(a) when the State Council or Settlement Council is dissolved, Members elected at the ensuing elections shall be deemed to have been elected by virtue of those elections, and Nominated Unofficial Members appointed to fill vacancies caused thereby shall be deemed to have been appointed, on the date on which the report of the first successful candidate for election is made to the Governor;

(b) paragraph (a) of this sub-section shall apply to the Members elected or appointed to a State Council or Settlement Council as first constituted under this Order as if such elections or appointments were consequent upon a dissolution of the Council; and

(c) in ascertaining the period during which a person has continuously been an Elected Member or a Nominated Unofficial Member of the Council no account shall be taken of any interval between the vacation by that person of his seat in the Council in consequence of the expiration of his tenure of office or a dissolution of the Council and the date of his re-election or re-appointment to fill a vacancy in the Council caused by that expiration of tenure or that dissolution.

===== Page 295 =====
Filling of vacancies.

62.—(1) Whenever the seat of a Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member becomes vacant, the vacancy shall be filled by appointment by the Governor.

(2) Whenever the seat of an Elected Member becomes vacant, a fresh election shall be held to fill the vacancy in accordance with such provisions as may be prescribed.

Voting.

63. Save as otherwise provided in this Order, all questions proposed for decision in the Council shall be determined by a majority of the votes of the Members present and voting. The Resident Commissioner shall not have an original vote, but if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, he shall have a casting vote. In the absence of the Resident Commissioner, the Member presiding shall have an original vote and also, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, a casting vote.

Assent to Bills. Disallowance of laws.

64. The provisions of sections 30 and 31 of this Order (which relate respectively to assent to Bills and disallowances of laws passed by the Legislative Council) shall apply to Bills and to laws passed by a State Council or Settlement Council.

Royal Instructions.

65. Subject to the provisions of this Order each State Council or Settlement Council shall, in the transaction of business and the passing of laws, conform as nearly as may be to the directions contained in any Instructions under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet which may from time to time be addressed to the Governor, and to any instructions of the Governor under the Public Seal which may from time to time be addressed to the Resident Commissioner, in that behalf.

Standing Orders.

66. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of such Instructions as aforesaid, each State Council or Settlement Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its own proceedings and the conduct of business and for the passing, intituling and numbering of Bills, and for the presentation thereof to the Governor for his assent, but no such Rules or Orders shall have effect unless and until they shall have been approved by the Governor.

Official Language.

67. The official languages of each State Council and Settlement Council shall be Malay and English.

Quorum.

68. No business except that of adjournment shall be transacted by a State or Settlement Council if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than one quarter of the Members present besides the Resident Commissioner or Member presiding.

Introduction of Bills.

69. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council, any Member may introduce any Bill or propose any motion for debate in, or may present any petition to, a State Council or Settlement Council, and the same shall be debated and disposed of according to the Standing Rules and Orders:

Provided that, except with the recommendation or consent of the Resident Commissioner signified thereto, the Council shall not proceed upon any Bill, amendment, motion or petition, which, in the opinion of the Resident Commissioner or of the presiding Member, would—

(a) dispose of, or charge any public revenue or public funds of the State or Settlement, or revoke or alter any disposition thereof or charge thereon, or impose, alter, or repeal any rate, tax or duty; or

===== Page 296 =====
(b) suspend the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council or any of them.

70. The sessions of each State Council or Settlement Council shall be held at such times and places as the Resident Commissioner shall from time to time by Proclamation appoint. There shall be a session of the Council once at least in every year, so that a period of twelve months shall not intervene between the last sitting in one Session and the first sitting in the next Session.

71.—(1) The Resident Commissioner may at any time, by Proclamation, prorogue or dissolve a State Council or Settlement Council.

(2) On dissolution, all Members shall vacate their seats and the Council shall be reconstituted by election and appointment in accordance with the provisions of this Order at such time, within three months of every dissolution, as the Governor shall by Proclamation appoint.

PART VIII.

SULTAN'S ADVISORY COUNCILS.

72. There shall be established for each of the Malay States a Council to be called the Sultan's Advisory Council.

73. Each Sultan's Advisory Council shall consist of the Sultan as President and such Members as the Sultan shall from time to time appoint.

74. The functions of each Sultan's Advisory Council shall be—

(a) to advise the Sultan on all matters affecting Muhammadan religion in the State;

(b) to advise the Sultan in the making of laws under this Part of this Order;

(c) to advise the Sultan on all matters which are referred to the Council by the Sultan or at the request of the Resident Commissioner with the approval of the Governor.

75.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, it shall be lawful for the Sultan of each of the Malay States, with the advice of the Sultan's Advisory Council of such State, to make laws the provisions of which relate solely to matters of Muhammadan religion and do not involve the imposition, collection or remission of any tax or tithe.

(2) Such laws shall have effect only within the State concerned.

(3) When any such Bill has been approved by a Sultan's Advisory Council, it shall be submitted to the Council of Sultans for approval by that Council pursuant to the provisions of section 40 of this Order. No Bill enacted by a Sultan with the advice of a Sultan's Advisory Council shall become a law until it shall have been approved by the Council of Sultans and assented to by the Sultan of the State concerned pursuant to the provisions of that section.

(4) A law assented to by the Sultan shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the date of such publication, or if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

===== Page 297 =====
Qualifications for Membership.

76. Subject to the provisions of this Order, any person who is of Malay race, professing the Muhammadan religion, and of the age of twenty-one years or upwards shall be qualified to be a Member of a Sultan's Advisory Council, and no other person shall be qualified to be so appointed or, having been so appointed, shall sit or vote in such Council.

Disqualification for Membership.

77. A person shall be disqualified for membership of a Sultan's Advisory Council for any reason which would cause disqualification for Membership of the Legislative Council under the provisions of paragraphs (1), (2) or (3) of section 20 of this Order.

Tenure of Office.

78. Subject to the provisions of this Order, a Member of a Sultan's Advisory Council shall hold his seat in the Council during the pleasure of the Sultan of the State.

Presiding in Sultan's Advisory Councils.

79. The Sultan of the State concerned, if present, shall preside at meetings of the Sultan's Advisory Council and, in his absence, such Member of the Council as he may, in writing appoint, or in the absence of that Member or if no Member be so appointed, the senior Member present shall preside.

Precedence of Members.

80. The Members of each Sultan's Advisory Council shall take precedence among themselves as the Sultan of the State concerned may assign.

Conflict.

81. In the event of any conflict between a law made under this Part and a law made under Part V, or Part VII or made or continued under Part IX, of this Order, the provisions of the last mentioned law shall prevail.

Standing Orders.

82. Subject to the provisions of this Order, each Sultan's Advisory Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its own proceedings and the conduct of business and for the passing, intituling and numbering of Bills, and for the presentation thereof to the Sultan for his assent.

Official language.

83. The official language of each Sultan's Advisory Council shall be Malay.

Sessions.

84.—(1) The Sessions of each Sultan's Advisory Council shall be held at such times and places as the Sultan shall from time to time appoint.

(2) There shall be a session of the Council once at least in every year.

PART IX.

TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS.

Governor may make laws.

85.—(1) Until such time as Parts IV and V of this Order shall come into operation, it shall be lawful for the Governor to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Union.

(2) In making such laws the Governor shall consult the Advisory Council.

(3) Section 31 of this Order shall apply to any law made under this Section as it applies to a law assented to by the Governor.

===== Page 298 =====
86.—(1) There shall be an Advisory Council which shall consist of the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary, and such other persons as the Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint; and such persons shall hold their places in the said Council during the Governor's pleasure.

(2) The Governor alone shall be entitled to submit questions to the Advisory Council for their advice. The Governor may act in opposition to the advice given to him by the Members of the Advisory Council if he shall in any case consider it right so to do. In such case, it shall be competent to any Member of the Advisory Council to require that there be recorded on the Minutes any advice or opinion he may give upon the question and the grounds thereof.

(3) The Governor may regulate the procedure and practice of the Advisory Council in such manner as he shall see fit.

(4) The Governor may, by Proclamation in the Gazette, declare that this section shall cease to have effect, and thereupon this section shall cease to have effect accordingly on the date specified in the Proclamation.

87.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, the existing laws shall, except in so far as the same shall, in their application to the Union or to any part thereof, be repealed, amended or otherwise affected by or under any Act of Parliament, Order of His Majesty in Council or any law made under the provisions of this Order, continue to have effect in the Union or, as the case may be, in that part thereof to which such law applied prior to the appointed day, but shall be construed subject to such modifications as may be necessary to bring them into conformity with the provisions of this Order.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section, the existing laws shall, except as aforesaid, in their application to any part of the Union, be construed, when the context admits, subject to the following modifications:

(a) references to the Colony of the Straits Settlements shall be construed as referring (but not exclusively) to the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang;

(b) references to the Federated Malay States shall be construed as references to the States of Negri Sembilan, Pahang, Perak and Selangor;

(c) references to the Governor or Governor in Council of the Colony of the Straits Settlements, or to the High Commissioner of the Malay States or to the Ruler of any Malay State or to any officer of, or authority, or body constituted in or for, the Straits Settlements or the Federated Malay States or any of the Malay States, shall be construed as references to the Governor or Governor in Council, or to the corresponding officer of, or authority or body constituted in or for the Union, as the case may be; and

(d) references to the Chief Justice or to any Court, Judge or Magistrate of the Straits Settlements or of the Federated Malay States or of any of the Malay States shall be construed as references to the Chief Justice or to the corresponding Court, Judge or Magistrate of the Union.

(3) The adaptations and modifications specified in the second column of the Second Schedule to this Order shall be made in the enactments mentioned in the first column of that Schedule.

===== Page 299 =====
(4) The enactments described in the First Schedule to the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890, shall apply to the Union as if the whole of the Union were a British Colony or Possession, but subject to the provisions of this Order and to the exceptions, adaptations, and modifications following, that is to say:

(i) The Governor is hereby substituted for the Governor of a Colony or British Possession, and the Supreme Court is hereby substituted for a Superior Court or Supreme Court, and for a Magistrate or Justice of the Peace, of a Colony or British Possession.

(ii) For the portions of the Merchant Shipping Acts, 1854 and 1867, referred to in the said Schedule, shall be substituted Part XIII of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894.

(iii) In section 51 of the Conveyancing (Scotland) Act, 1874, and any enactment for the time being in force amending the same, the High Court is substituted for a Court of Probate in a Colony.

(iv) For the purposes of Part II of the Fugitive Offenders Act, 1881, the Union, the Colony of Singapore, Sarawak, Brunei, North Borneo and Labuan shall be deemed to be one group of British possessions:

Provided that nothing in this sub-section contained shall be taken to extend to the Union the enactments mentioned in the Schedule to the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1913, or any of them.

(5) Where under the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894, or any amending Act, anything is authorised to be done by, to, or before a British Consular Officer, such thing may be done, in any place in the Union at which there is no Consular officer, by, to, or before such officer of the Government of the Union as the Governor may appoint.

(6) The Colonial Prisoners Removal Act, 1884, shall apply to and take effect within the Union as if the whole of the Union were a British Possession and part of His Majesty’s dominions, subject as follows:

The Governor is hereby substituted for the Governor of a British Possession.

Validity of previous acts.

88. Subject to the express provisions of this Order, nothing in this Order shall affect the validity or future operation of any lawful act done in any territory now comprised in the Union by any person or authority before the appointed day.

Pending proceedings.

89. All proceedings commenced before the 15th day of February, 1942, in any Court of Justice in, or having jurisdiction in, any territory now comprised in the Union may be carried on in like manner as nearly as may be, as if this Order and the Act of 1946, had not been made or passed but in the corresponding Court of the Union, and any such proceeding may be amended in such manner as may appear necessary or proper in order to bring it into conformity with the provisions of this Order.

Crimes committed and causes of action arising prior to the appointed day.

90. Courts constituted for the Union shall have, within their respective powers, jurisdiction with respect to all offences (including offences against Proclamations issued by, or under the authority of, the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia) and causes of action committed or arising before the appointed day for which the accused might have been tried, or proceedings might have been had, within any of the Malay

===== Page 300 =====
States or within either of the Settlements under the law (including the provisions of any such Proclamation) in force in the said State or in the Straits Settlements before the appointed day, and such jurisdiction shall be exercised in conformity with the law in force in the State or Settlement concerned at the date when the offence was committed or the cause of action arose and in accordance, as nearly as may be, with the procedure in force in Courts constituted under this Order.

91. Military Courts established in the Malay States or the Settlements by the British Military Administration by virtue of any Proclamation made by, or under the authority of the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia, in which proceedings have been commenced and are pending at the date of this Order shall be deemed to be lawfully constituted Courts with jurisdiction to continue and conclude such proceedings and to issue warrants for the custody of prisoners and the carrying out of sentences in accordance with such Proclamation and any Rules, Regulations or Orders made thereunder, after the appointed day. The powers and functions of a confirming authority or reviewing authority under any such Proclamation may be exercised by such person or persons as the Governor shall designate in that behalf.

92.—(1) In this section—

(i) “Malay States property” means property which, immediately before the appointed day, was vested in or was in the possession, or under the control or held on account of His Majesty, or the Ruler of any of the Malay States, or the Government of the Federated Malay States, or the Government of any of the Malay States, or any officer of any such Government for any of the purposes of any such Government;

(ii) “Straits Settlements property” means property which, immediately before the appointed day, was vested in, or was in the possession, or under the control, or held on account of His Majesty, or the Government of the Straits Settlements, or any officer of that Government, for any of the purposes of that Government; and

(iii) Any reference to property vested in any person or authority shall be construed as including a reference to any property in the possession, or under the control, or held on account, of that person or authority; and any direction that property shall be vested in any person or authority shall likewise be construed as including a direction, as the case may require, that the possession or control of property shall be transferred to, or that property shall be held on account of, that person or authority.

(2) Save as in this section otherwise provided, all Malay States property shall, as from the appointed day, vest in His Majesty, or in the appropriate officer of the Government of the Union, or in the person or body prescribed under sub-section (7) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Union.

(3) Save as in this section otherwise provided, all Straits Settlements property which was, immediately before the appointed day, either—

(a) immovable property situate in the Settlements or either of them; or

(b) vested solely for a purpose of the Government of the Straits Settlements which will, after the appointed day, be a purpose of the [POSSIBLY MISSING]

===== Page 301 =====
Government of the Union in relation to the Settlements or either of them; shall vest in His Majesty or the appropriate officer of the Government of the Union, or the person or body prescribed under sub-section (7) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Union.

(4) Save as in this section otherwise provided any Straits Settlements property which was, immediately before the appointed day, vested for any purpose of the Government of the Straits Settlements which was common to the Settlements or either of them and to any other territory formerly included in the Straits Settlements but not included in the Union, shall be apportioned between the Union and such territory by agreement between the Governor and the Governor of such territory with the approval of a Secretary of State; or, in default of such agreement, shall be apportioned by order of a Secretary of State. Any such agreement or order may contain provisions for the assessment of values, for the perfecting of any transfer of property mentioned therein and for financial and other adjustments, and may contain such other provisions as may be considered necessary or expedient for carrying the apportionment into effect.

(5) Any Straits Settlements property apportioned to the Union under sub-section (4) of this section shall be vested in His Majesty or the appropriate officer of the Government of the Union, or the person or body prescribed under sub-section (7) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Union; and the Governor may make such vesting or other orders as may be considered necessary or expedient for carrying the provisions of this Section into effect, and for such purpose may appoint and empower persons to transfer property.

(6) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, any property which, immediately before the appointed day, was vested in the Ruler of any of the Malay States for any of the following purposes, shall continue to be vested in the Sultan of the State for the same purposes, that is to say—

(a) any property held by, or in trust for, or for the benefit of a Ruler for his official or personal use; or

(b) any building or land used for purposes of the Muhammadan religion, or property pertaining to the endowment of Muhammadan religious institutions;

and nothing in this section shall affect the use or enjoyment of any property vested in a Ruler or in His Majesty for any of the said purposes.

(7) The Governor may make regulations for determining, in cases of doubt, the person or body in whom property affected by this section shall be vested, and generally for giving effect to this section, and may, by Order, exclude any particular property from the operation of this section, or declare, for the removal of doubt, whether and in what manner, any particular property is affected thereby.

93.—(1) All liabilities incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Federated Malay States or of the Government of any of the Malay States for any of the purposes of any such Government shall be deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Union.

===== Page 302 =====
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section—

(a) Such liabilities shall include claims in respect of Loans issued, and Post Office Savings Bank deposits received, by the Government of the Federated Malay States or the Government of any of the Malay States.

(b) Claims to pensions, gratuities and other like allowances in respect of service under the Government of the Federated Malay States or the Government of any of the Malay States before the appointed day, whether arising before or after that day, shall be liabilities deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Union.

(3) All liabilities incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Straits Settlements solely for a purpose which will, after the appointed day, be a purpose of the Government of the Union in relation to the Settlements or either of them shall be deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Union.

(4) It shall be lawful for the Governor, with the approval of a Secretary of State, to make, vary, rescind and carry into effect, arrangements with the Governor of any territory formerly included in the Straits Settlements but not included in the Union for the payment to the Government of that territory from the funds of the Government of the Union, of contribution towards the sums necessary to defray such of the liabilities of the Government of the Straits Settlements as shall have been transferred, by any Order in Council or otherwise, to the Government of that territory, including liabilities for the service and repayment of Loans and War Savings Certificates issued, Post Office Savings Bank Deposits received and pensions, allowances and gratuities payable, by the Government of the Straits Settlements. Such contributions shall be proportionate to the share of such liabilities which, a Secretary of State is satisfied, is properly attributable to the Settlements.

(5) Claims in respect of liabilities deemed, by virtue of this section, to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Union which, if the Act of 1946 had not been passed and this Order had not been made, might have been enforced against His Majesty in His Government of the Straits Settlements, or against the Government of the Federated Malay States or of any of the Malay States or against any officer of any such Government in his official capacity or against any department of any such Government in connection with the administration of the Settlements or either of them or of the Federated Malay States or of any Malay State, may be enforced in such manner as may be prescribed by laws for the time being in force or by any regulation made by the Governor under sub-section (6) of this section, against His Majesty in His Government of the Union or against the Government or the appropriate officer of the Government of the Union, as the case may be.

(6) The Governor may make regulations for determining in any case of doubt the person or body by or against whom claims may be enforced under this section and generally for giving effect thereto.

94. The provisions of sections 88 to 93 inclusive of this Order may be amended by laws made under Part V or under section 85 of this Order.

===== Page 303 =====
PART X.

MISCELLANEOUS.

Oath of Allegiance.

95. Except for the purpose of enabling this section to be complied with, no Member shall sit or vote on any Council constituted under Section 13 and Parts IV and VII of this Order until he shall have taken and subscribed before the Governor, or some person authorised by the Governor in that behalf, the Oath of Allegiance in the form set out in the First Schedule to this Order:

Provided that every person authorised by law to make an affirmation instead of taking an oath in legal proceedings may make such affirmation in like terms instead of the said oath.

Provisions necessary to give effect to the Order.

96.—(1) Provision may be made by laws made under this Order and, until such provision has been so made, by regulations made by the Governor, regulating any matter which by this Order or by Instructions under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet is to be prescribed.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section, provision may be made regulating the election of Elected Members to any State Council or Settlement Council constituted by this Order including provision for regulating any of the following matters, that is to say:

(a) the persons, associations or bodies by whom Members are to be elected;
(b) the holding of elections;
(c) the qualifications of voters;
(d) the registration of voters;
(e) the ascertainment of the qualifications of voters and candidates;
(f) offences in relation to elections including the trial and punishment thereof; and
(g) the disposal of election petitions and the determination of questions otherwise arising regarding membership of the Councils.

(3) Such regulations shall be published in the Gazette; and thereafter every such regulation shall take effect on the day of publication or on such other day as may be therein specified and shall have the force of law.

Unqualified persons sitting or voting.

97. Any person who—

(a) having been elected or appointed a member of any Council constituted by this Order, but not having been at the time of such election or appointment, qualified to be so elected or appointed, shall sit or vote in such Council; or

(b) shall sit or vote in such Council after his seat therein has become vacant or he has become disqualified from sitting or voting therein; knowing, or having reasonable grounds for knowing, that he was disqualified, or that his seat has become vacant, as the case may be, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding two hundred dollars for every day upon which he so sits or votes.

(2) The said penalty shall be recoverable by action in the Supreme Court at the suit of the Attorney General.

===== Page 304 =====
98. No Council constituted by this Order shall be disqualified from the transaction of business by reason of any vacancy among the Members, or by reason of the sitting or voting therein of any unqualified or disqualified person.

99. For the avoidance of doubts it is hereby declared that any law or regulation made under this Order may be made to operate retrospectively to any date.

100.—(1) If any difficulty shall arise in bringing into operation any of the provisions of this Order or in giving effect to the purposes thereof, a Secretary of State may, by Order, make such provision as seems to him necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing the difficulty and may by such Order amend or add to any provision of this Order:

Provided that no Order under this section shall be made later than the first day of January, 1948:

(2) Any Order under this section may be amended, added to, or revoked by a further Order, and may be given retrospective effect to a day not earlier than the appointed day.

101. Nothing in this Order shall affect the power of His Majesty in Council to make laws from time to time for the peace, order and good government of the Union.

E. C. E. Leadbitter.

FIRST SCHEDULE.
OATH OF ALLEGIANCE.
(Sections 6 and 95).

I, ..., do swear that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to His Majesty King George VI, His Heirs and Successors, according to Law. So help me God.

OATH FOR THE DUE EXECUTION
OF THE OFFICE OF GOVERNOR.

I, ..., do swear that I will well and truly serve His Majesty King George VI, His Heirs and Successors, in the Office of Governor. So help me God.

THE SECOND SCHEDULE.
(Section 87 (3)).
Adaptation of Acts of Parliament.

Title of Act. | Adaptation.
---|---
The Finance Act, 1922 | Subsection (2) of section 45 of the Act shall have effect as if the words "Negri Sembilan, Pahang, Perak, Selangor" were substituted for the words "the Federated Malay States and" in line two.
The Pensions (Governors of Dominions, etc.) Act, 1929. | Section 9 of the Act shall have effect as if the words "Malayan Union" were substituted for the words "Malay States" in the last line.

Printed by His Majesty's Stationery Office Press,
Drury Lane, W.C.2.

===== Page 305 =====
The following is a transcription of the text from the provided image:

1. The image contains a table with two columns, each containing text. The table is labeled "Table 1".
2. The first column of the table contains text that is not clearly visible in the image.
3. The second column of the table contains text that is also not clearly visible in the image.

Due to the limited resolution of the image, it is not possible to accurately transcribe the text from the table.

===== Page 306 =====
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE
The 27th day of March, 1946
Present
THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL.

WHEREAS by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Act, 1946 (hereinafter referred to as "the Act of 1946"), it is (among other things) provided—

(1) that on such day as His Majesty may by Order in Council appoint (in the Act of 1946, and in this Order referred to as "the appointed day") the Straits Settlements Act, 1866, shall be repealed and the Straits Settlements, that is to say the settlements and dependencies mentioned in the Schedule to the Act of 1946 (which include among other settlements and dependencies, the Settlement of Singapore and its dependencies the Cocos or Keeling Islands and Christmas Island) shall cease to be a single Colony;

(2) that on and after the appointed day the said settlements and dependencies shall be divided into such territories as His Majesty may by Order in Council direct and those territories shall be governed, either singly or in conjunction with such other territories (whether falling within the Schedule to the Act of 1946 or not) as may be specified in the Order and that such Order in Council may contain such consequential and other provisions as are contained in this Order; and

(3) that the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945, shall apply in relation to each of the territories into which the said settlements and dependencies are divided by Order under this Act as if it were a British settlement as so defined:

AND WHEREAS by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Order in Council, 1946, it is provided that the appointed day shall be the first day of April, 1946.

NOW, THEREFORE, His Majesty, by virtue and in exercise of the powers in that behalf by the Act of 1946 and by the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945, or otherwise in His Majesty vested, is pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council, to order, and it is hereby ordered, as follows:

PART I.

PRELIMINARY.

1.—(1) This Order may be cited as the Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946, and shall come into operation on the appointed day.

(2) Section 13 and Parts IV and V of this Order shall not come into operation on the appointed day, but shall come into operation on such day or days respectively within six months from the appointed day as may be fixed by the Governor by Proclamation in the Gazette, and the Governor may fix different days for different purposes and different provisions of that section and those Parts:

===== Page 307 =====
Provided also that the said period of six months may be extended by the Governor, by Proclamation in the Gazette, for such further period as may be approved by a Secretary of State.

2. (1) In this Order, unless the context otherwise requires—

“the Chief Justice” means the Chief Justice of the Colony;

“the Colony” means the Colony of Singapore as constituted by this Order;

“the existing laws” means the common law, the doctrines of equity, and all Acts of Parliament, Orders in Council, Ordinances of the Legislature of the Colony of the Straits Settlements, Proclamations issued by the Governor of the Straits Settlements, or by or under the authority of the Supreme Allied Commander South East Asia (other than the Proclamations establishing the British Military Administration and delegating powers thereunder), and all Rules, Regulations and By-laws made thereunder, and all other enactments or instruments having the force of law in the territory comprising the Colony or in any part thereof immediately prior to the appointed day, whether the same were administered by the British Military Administration or not;

“the Gazette” means the Official Gazette of the Colony;

“the Governor” means the Governor and Commander-in-Chief for the time being of the Colony and includes any officer for the time being administering the government thereof and, to the extent that a Deputy to the Governor is authorised to act, that Deputy;

“the Governor in Council” means the Governor acting after consultation with, but not necessarily in accordance with the advice of the Executive Council of the Colony; nor necessarily in such Council assembled; and, until section 13 of this Order is in operation, means the Governor;

“Malayan Union Citizen” means a citizen of the Malayan Union within the meaning of any Order in Council which may provide for Malayan Union citizenship.

“prescribed” means prescribed by any law made under this Order or by regulation made by the Governor under section 50;

“property” includes all property movable or immovable, and all estates, interests, easements and rights whether equitable or legal, in, to or out of property, and things in action and rights to revenue, taxes, duties and other dues; and “vested” in relation to property includes rights to property which are contingent and rights in remainder or reversion;

“the Public Seal” means the public seal of the Colony and includes the official stamp mentioned in section 9 of this Order;

“session” means the sittings of the Legislative Council commencing when the Council first meets after being constituted under this Order, or after its prorogation or dissolution at any time, and terminating when the Council is prorogued or is dissolved without having been prorogued;

“the Settlement of Singapore” means the Island of Singapore and its dependencies, Christmas Island, the Cocos or Keeling Islands, and all islands and places which, on the fifteenth day of February, 1942, were known and administered as part of such Settlement, and the territorial waters adjacent thereto;

===== Page 308 =====
“Sitting” means any sitting or sittings of the Legislative Council commencing when the Council first meets after being summoned at any time and terminating when the Council is adjourned sine die or at the conclusion of a session without adjournment; and “the Supreme Court” means the Supreme Court of the Colony.

(2) For the purposes of this Order, where reference is made to any public officer by the term designating his office, such reference means the officer for the time being discharging the functions of that office.

(3) For the purposes of this Order a person shall not be deemed to hold an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony by reason only that he is in receipt of a pension or other like allowance in respect of service under the Crown.

If it shall be declared by any law for the time being in force in the Colony that an office shall not be an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony for all or any of the purposes of this Order, this Order shall have effect accordingly as if such law were enacted herein.

(4) The Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply for the interpretation of this Order as it applies for the interpretation of an Act of Parliament.

3. The Island of Singapore and its dependencies, the Cocos or Keeling Islands and Christmas Island shall be governed and administered as a separate Colony and shall be called the Colony of Singapore.

PART II.

THE GOVERNOR AND EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.

4. There shall be a Governor and Commander-in-Chief (hereinafter called “the Governor”) in and over the Colony, and appointments to the said office shall be made by Commission under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet.

5. The Governor is hereby empowered and commanded to do all things that belong to his said office in accordance with this Order and such Commission as may be issued to him under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet and according to such Instructions as may from time to time be given to him under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet, or through a Secretary of State, and such Orders in Council and other laws as may from time to time be in force in the Colony.

6. Every person appointed to fill the office of Governor shall, before entering on any of the duties of his office, cause the Commission appointing him to be Governor to be read and published at the seat of Government, in the presence of the Chief Justice or, in his absence, of some other Judge of the Supreme Court, and, if section 13 of this Order is in force, of such members of the Executive Council of the Colony as can conveniently attend; and shall take before them the Oath of Allegiance and the Oath for the due execution of the office of Governor in the forms set out in the First Schedule to this Order, which Oaths the Chief Justice or other Judge as aforesaid shall administer.

7.—(1) Whenever the office of Governor is vacant or the Governor is absent from the Colony or the Governor is from any cause prevented from, or incapable of, performing the duties of his office, then such person as His Majesty may appoint under His Sign Manual and Signet or if there is no such person in the Colony so appointed and capable of discharging the duties of administration, the Senior Member of the

===== Page 309 =====
Executive Council then in the Colony and so capable, shall, during His Majesty’s pleasure, administer the Government of the Colony, first taking in manner in this Order prescribed the Oaths directed by this Order to be taken by the Governor. Thereupon such person or Member is hereby empowered, subject, if he is so appointed as aforesaid, to the terms of his appointment, to do, during His Majesty’s pleasure, all things that belong to the Office of Governor as provided in this Order:

Provided that the Governor or any person appointed as aforesaid shall not be regarded as absent from the Colony or prevented from or incapable of performing the duties of his office for the purposes of this Order, during his passage from one part of the Colony to another or during a visit to the Malayan Union or when there is a subsisting appointment of a Deputy under the next succeeding section of this Order.

(2) Any such person as aforesaid shall not continue to administer the Government after the Governor or some other person having a prior right to administer the same has notified that he is about to assume or resume the administration.

8.—(1) Whenever the Governor has occasion to be absent from the seat of Government but not from the Colony or to be absent from the Colony for a period which he has reason to believe will be of short duration or whenever by reason of illness which he has reason to believe will be of short duration he considers it desirable so to do, he may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint any person resident in the Colony to be his Deputy during such absence or illness, and in that capacity to exercise and perform for and on behalf of the Governor during such absence or illness all such functions of the Governor as shall be specified in such Instrument.

(2) By the appointment of a Deputy as aforesaid the power and authority of the Governor shall not be abridged, altered, or in any way affected otherwise than as His Majesty may at any time direct, and every such Deputy shall conform to and observe all such instructions as the Governor shall from time to time address to him for his guidance.

(3) Any appointment under this section may at any time be revoked by the Governor or by a Secretary of State and in case of absence as aforesaid, shall cease and determine upon the return of the Governor to the seat of Government or to the Colony, as the case may be.

Public Seal.

9. The Governor shall keep and use the Public Seal of the Colony for sealing all things that shall pass the said Seal. Until a Public Seal shall be provided for the Colony, an official stamp bearing the inscription “Colony of Singapore. Public Seal” may be used as the Public Seal.

Grants of land.

10. Subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force in the Colony and of any Instructions from time to time given to the Governor under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, the Governor, in His Majesty’s name and on His Majesty’s behalf, may make and execute, under the Public Seal, grants and dispositions of any lands within the Colony which may be lawfully granted or disposed of by His Majesty.

Suspension or dismissal of officers.

11. Subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force in the Colony and to any instructions from time to time given to him by His Majesty through a Secretary of State, the Governor, for cause shown to his satisfaction, may dismiss or suspend from the exercise of his office any person holding any public office within the Colony, or, may take such other disciplinary action as may seem to him desirable.

===== Page 310 =====
12. When any offence has been committed for which the offender may be tried within the Colony, the Governor may, as he shall see occasion, in His Majesty’s name and on His Majesty’s behalf, grant a pardon to any accomplice in such offence who shall give such information as shall lead to the conviction of the principal offender or any one of such offenders if more than one; and further may grant to any offender convicted of any such offence in any Court within the Colony, a pardon either free or subject to lawful conditions, or any respite either indefinite or for such period as the Governor may see fit, of the execution of any sentence passed on such offender and may remit the whole or any part of such sentence or of any penalties or forfeitures otherwise due to His Majesty.

13. There shall be an Executive Council for the Colony, and the said Council shall consist of such persons as His Majesty shall direct by Instructions under His Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, and all such persons shall hold their places in the Executive Council during His Majesty’s pleasure and, subject thereto, for such period and upon such conditions as may be specified in any such Instructions.

PART III.

COURTS.

14.—(1) There shall be in and for the Colony a Court of unlimited civil and criminal jurisdiction to be called the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court shall be a Court of Record and may consist of a High Court and a Court of Appeal.

(2) There shall be a Chief Justice appointed by His Majesty by Letters Patent, or by the Governor by Letters Patent under the Public Seal in accordance with such instructions as he may receive from His Majesty through a Secretary of State, and as many Judges of the Supreme Court, appointed similarly or in manner prescribed, as may from time to time be required. The Chief Justice and Judges of the Supreme Court shall hold office during His Majesty’s pleasure.

(3) The constitution, powers and procedure of the Supreme Court and provisions relating to appeals therefrom to His Majesty in Council and provisions relating to the qualifications, order of precedence, duties and powers of Judges, and appointment of temporary Judges, may, subject to the provisions of this Order, be prescribed by laws made under this Order.

15.—(1) Courts subordinate to the Supreme Court and Courts of special jurisdiction may be constituted by laws made under this Order.

(2) Provision may be made by such laws for the hearing and determining of appeals from any such Court by the Supreme Court or otherwise.

PART IV.

LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.

16.—(1) There shall be a Legislative Council in and for the Colony, constituted in accordance with the provisions of this Order.

(2) The Council shall consist of the Governor as President, four ex officio Members, and such Nominated Official Members, not exceeding seven, such Nominated Unofficial Members not exceeding two, and such

===== Page 311 =====
Elected Members not exceeding nine as His Majesty shall direct by Instructions under His Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State.

17. The ex officio Members shall be the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary and the President of the Municipal Commissioners.

18. The Nominated Official Members shall be persons holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony, and shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of His Majesty’s Instructions through a Secretary of State.

19. The Nominated Unofficial Members shall be British subjects or Malayan Union citizens of the age of twenty-one or upwards not holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony, and shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of His Majesty’s Instructions through a Secretary of State.

20. The Elected Members shall be British subjects of the age of twenty-one years or upwards, not holding any office of emolument under the Crown, qualified as voters under any prescribed provision, who, the prescribed person is satisfied, are able to speak, and unless incapacitated by blindness or other physical cause, to read and write, the English language with a degree of proficiency sufficient to enable them to take an active part in the proceedings of the Council. Elected Members shall be elected in the manner prescribed.

21. No person shall be capable of being appointed or elected a Member of the Legislative Council or, having been appointed or elected, shall sit and vote therein, who at the time of appointment or election—

(1) is a person found or declared to be of unsound mind under any law in force in the Colony; or

(2) has, in any part of His Majesty’s dominions or in any territory under His Majesty’s protection, been sentenced to death or penal servitude or to imprisonment by whatever name called, for a term exceeding six months and has not either suffered the punishment to which he was sentenced or such other punishment as may by competent authority have been substituted therefor or received a free pardon; or

(3) is an undischarged bankrupt; or

(4) in the case of a Nominated Unofficial Member is a party to, or a member of a firm or a director or manager of a company which is a party to, any subsisting contract with the Government of the Colony for or on account of the public service or is otherwise to his knowledge interested in any such contract and shall not have disclosed to the Governor the nature of such contract and his interest or the interest, or any such firm or company therein; or

(b) in the case of an Elected Member, is a party to, or a member of a firm, or a director or manager of a company which is a party to any subsisting contract with the Government of the Colony for or on account of the public service or is otherwise to his knowledge interested in any such contract and has not published within one month before the day of election, in the Gazette or in some newspaper circulating in the Colony, a notice setting out the nature of such contract and his interest or the interest of any such firm or company therein; or

(5) in the case of an Elected Member is disqualified for membership of the Council under any law for the time being in force in the Colony relating to offences connected with the election of Members.

===== Page 312 =====
22. — (1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, every Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council shall hold his seat in the Legislative Council during His Majesty's pleasure.

(2) Every Member shall in any case cease to be a Member at the next dissolution of the Legislative Council after his appointment or election, or previously if his seat shall become vacant under the provisions of this Order.

(3) The seat of a Member of the Legislative Council (other than an ex officio Member) shall become vacant—

(a) upon his death; or

(b) if he shall, without the leave of the Governor, be absent from two consecutive meetings of the Council; or

(c) if he shall cease to be a British subject; or shall take any oath, or make any declaration or acknowledgment of allegiance, obedience or adherence to any foreign power or State; or shall do, concur in or adopt any act done with the intention that he shall become a subject or citizen of any foreign Power or State; or

(d) if he shall be declared a bankrupt under any law in force in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection; or

(e) if in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection, he shall be sentenced to death, or imprisonment, by whatever name called, for a term exceeding six months; or

(f) if he shall be found or declared insane under any law in force in the Colony; or

(g) if he shall become disqualified for membership of the Council under any law or regulation for the time being in force in the Colony relating to offences connected with the election of Members; or

(h) if, being a Nominated Official Member, a Nominated Unofficial Member or Elected Member, he shall, by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor resign his seat in the Legislative Council; or

(i) if, being a Nominated Official Member, he shall cease to hold office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony; or

(j) if, being an Elected Member, he shall be appointed to or act in any such office or being a Nominated Unofficial Member he shall be appointed permanently to any such office; or

(k) if he shall otherwise cease to possess qualification for election or appointment, as the case may be; or

(l) if, being a Nominated Unofficial Member or Elected Member, he shall, without the approval of the Governor, become a party to, or if any firm in which he is a partner, or any company of which he is a director or manager, shall become a party to, or if he shall be otherwise interested in, any contract with the Government of the Colony for or on account of the Public service and shall not before the making of the contract have disclosed to the Governor the nature of such contract and his interest, or the interest of any such firm or company therein.

===== Page 313 =====
(4) If a Nominated Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council shall be appointed temporarily to any office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony, or shall be appointed to act in any such office, he shall not sit or vote in the Legislative Council as an Unofficial Member so long as he continues to hold or to act in that office.

(5) Any person vacating a seat as a Member of the Legislative Council may, if qualified, be again appointed or elected as a Member from time to time.

(6) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council, and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared, in manner aforesaid, to be again capable of discharging his said functions.

(7) The Governor may by Instrument under the Public Seal suspend any Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the Legislative Council. Every such suspension shall forthwith be reported by the Governor to His Majesty through a Secretary of State, and shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal or by His Majesty through a Secretary of State, or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the Legislative Council.

(8) All questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain an Elected Member shall be determined in such manner as may be prescribed.

(9) All questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain a Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member shall be referred to and decided by the Governor in Council, whose decision shall be final and shall not be called in question in any Court in the Colony.

23.—(1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Legislative Council, as ex officio Members, or Nominated Official Members or Nominated Unofficial Members, by reason of the fact that—

(a) an ex officio Member is administering the Government of the Colony; or

(b) one person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the four officers specified in section 17 of this Order; or

(c) no person is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or

(d) a Nominated Official Member is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or

(e) the seat of a Nominated Official Member or of a Nominated Unofficial Member is vacant for any cause other than a dissolution of the Council; or

(f) a Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in this Order, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or

(g) a Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or

===== Page 314 =====
(h) a Member is absent from the Colony; or

(i) a Nominated Unofficial Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of his having been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony or to act in any such office;

the Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint a person to be a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) If the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Nominated Official Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as a Nominated Official Member; and if the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Nominated Unofficial Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as a Nominated Unofficial Member.

(3) Every person appointed to be a Temporary Member under this section shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Nominated Official Members, a Nominated Official Member;

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Nominated Unofficial Members, a Nominated Unofficial Member;

and, subject to the provisions of this section, the provisions of section 22 of this Order shall apply accordingly:

Provided that, in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed shall not be regarded as a Nominated Official Member in computing the number of such Members for the purposes of sub-section (2) of section 16 of this Order.

(4) The Governor shall forthwith report every such temporary appointment to His Majesty through a Secretary of State. Any such appointment may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be disallowed by His Majesty through a Secretary of State or revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment under this section shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of disallowance by His Majesty or of revocation by the Governor or on supersession of the appointment by the definitive appointment of a person to fill the vacancy or when the vacancy shall otherwise cease to exist.

24. The Governor may summon to any meeting of the Legislative Council any person holding public office under the Crown in the Colony, notwithstanding that such person may not be a Member of the Council, when, in the opinion of the Governor, the business before the Council renders the presence of such person desirable. Any person so summoned shall be entitled to take part in the proceedings of the Council relating to the business in respect of which he is summoned as if he were a Member of the Council, except that he shall not have the right to vote in the Council.

25. The Governor, if present, shall preside at meetings of the Council, and, in his absence, such Member as the Governor may appoint or, in the absence of such Member, or if no Member be so appointed, the senior Member of Council actually present shall preside.

===== Page 315 =====
Quorum.

26. No business except that of adjournment shall be transacted by the Council if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than one quarter of the Members present besides the Governor or other Member presiding.

Precedence of Members.

27.—(1) After the Governor the Members of the Council shall take precedence as His Majesty may specially assign and, if precedence be not so assigned, as follows:

First, the ex officio Members in the order in which they are mentioned in section 17 of this Order;

Secondly, the Nominated Official Members appointed under section 18 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments as Nominated Official Members, or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Thirdly, Nominated Official Members temporarily appointed under section 23 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Fourthly, the Nominated Unofficial Members and Elected Members according to the lengths of time during which they have been continuously Members of the Council: Members elected or appointed at the same time taking precedence among themselves as the Governor may assign.

(2) For the purposes of the preceding sub-section—

(a) when the Council is dissolved, Nominated Official Members and Nominated Unofficial Members appointed to fill vacancies caused thereby shall be deemed to have been appointed, and Members elected at the ensuing elections shall be deemed to have been elected by virtue of those elections, at the date on which the report of the first successful candidate for election is made to the Governor; and

(b) paragraph (a) of this sub-section shall apply to the Members elected or appointed to the Legislative Council as first constituted under this Order as if such elections or appointments were consequent upon a dissolution of the Council; and

(c) in ascertaining the period during which a person has continuously been an Elected Member or a Nominated Unofficial Member of the Council, no account shall be taken of any interval between the vacation by that person of his seat in the Council in consequence of a dissolution of the Council and the date of his re-election or re-appointment to fill a vacancy in the Council caused by that dissolution.

Part V

LEGISLATION AND PROCEDURE IN LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL

Power to make laws.

28. Subject to the provisions of this Order, it shall be lawful for the Governor, with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council, to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Colony.

===== Page 316 =====
29. Save as otherwise provided in this Order, all questions proposed for decision in the Council shall be determined by a majority of the votes of the Members present and voting. The Governor shall not have an original vote, but, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, he shall have a casting vote. In the absence of the Governor, the Member presiding shall have an original vote and also, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, a casting vote.

30.—(1) If the Governor shall consider that it is expedient in the interests of public order, public faith or good government that any Bill introduced or any motion proposed in the Council shall have effect, then if the Council fail to pass such a Bill or motion within such time and in such form as the Governor may think reasonable and expedient, the Governor, at any time in his discretion, may, notwithstanding any provisions of this Order or of any Standing Rules or Orders of the Council, declare that such Bill or motion shall have effect as if it had been passed by the Council, either in the form in which it was so introduced or proposed or with such amendments as the Governor shall think fit which have been moved or proposed in the Council or in any Committee thereof; and thereupon the said Bill or motion shall have effect as if it had been so passed, and, in the case of any such Bill, the provisions of this Order, relating to assent to Bills and disallowance of laws shall apply accordingly.

(2) In this section the expression "public order, public faith or good government" shall without prejudice to their generality, include the following:

(a) the responsibility of the Colony as a component part of the British Empire, including foreign relations and relations with other parts of the British Empire;

(b) all questions relating to defence, including provision, construction, maintenance and use of defence works, areas and communications;

(c) subjects upon which, in the opinion of the Governor or of a Secretary of State, it is necessary to secure uniformity in Legislation between the Colony and the Malayan Union; and

(d) all matters pertaining to the creation or abolition of any public office and to the appointment, salary or other conditions of service of any public officer or officers.

(3) The Governor shall forthwith report to a Secretary of State every case in which he shall make any such declaration as is mentioned in sub-section (1) of this section and the reason therefor.

(4) If any Member of the Legislative Council objects to any declaration made under this section, he may, within seven days of the making thereof, submit to the Governor a statement in writing of his reasons for so objecting and a copy of such statement shall, if furnished by such Member, be forwarded by the Governor as soon as practicable to a Secretary of State.

(5) Any such declaration, other than a declaration relating to a Bill, may be revoked by a Secretary of State, and the Governor shall notify such revocation in the Gazette; and from the date of such notification any resolution which shall have had effect by virtue of the declaration revoked shall cease to have effect and the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 38 of the Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply to such revocation as they apply to the repeal of an Act of Parliament.

===== Page 317 =====
31.—(1) No Bill shall become a law until either the Governor shall assent thereto in His Majesty’s name and on His Majesty’s behalf, and shall sign the same in token of assent, or His Majesty shall give his assent thereto through a Secretary of State.

(2) When a Bill is presented to the Governor for his assent, he shall, according to his discretion, but subject to the provisions of this Order and of any instructions addressed to him under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, declare that he assents or refuses to assent thereto, or that he reserves the Bill for the signification of His Majesty’s pleasure.

(3) A law assented to by the Governor shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the date on which such assent shall be given, or, if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment (including any enactment in force at the commencement of this Order) that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

(4) A Bill reserved for the signification of His Majesty’s pleasure shall become a law so soon as His Majesty shall have given His assent thereto, through a Secretary of State, and the Governor shall have signified such assent by Proclamation in the Gazette. Every such law shall come into operation on the date of such Proclamation or, if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment (including any enactment in force at the commencement of this Order) that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

32.—(1) Any law to which the Governor shall have given his assent may be disallowed by His Majesty through a Secretary of State.

(2) Whenever any law has been disallowed by His Majesty, the Governor shall cause notice of such disallowance to be published in the Gazette.

(3) Without prejudice to anything lawfully done thereunder, every law so disallowed shall cease to have effect as soon as notice of such disallowance shall be published as aforesaid. Thereafter any enactment repealed or amended by such law shall have effect as if such law had not been made, but save as aforesaid, the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 38 of the Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply to such disallowance as they apply to the repeal of an Act of Parliament.

33. Subject to the provisions of this Order, the Governor and the Council shall, in the transaction of business and the passing of laws, conform as nearly as may be to the directions contained in any Instructions under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet which may from time to time be addressed to the Governor in that behalf.

34. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of such Instructions as aforesaid, the Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its own proceedings and the conduct of business and for the passing, intitulating and numbering of Bills, and for the presentation of the same to the Governor for his assent, but no such Rules or Orders shall have effect unless and until they shall have been approved by the Governor.

35. The official language of the Council shall be English.

===== Page 318 =====
36. Except for the purpose of enabling this section to be complied with, no Member shall sit or vote in the Council until he shall have taken and subscribed before the Governor, or some person authorised by the Governor in that behalf, the Oath of Allegiance in the form set out in the First Schedule to this Order:

Provided that every person authorised by law to make an affirmation instead of taking an oath in legal proceedings may make such affirmation in like terms instead of the said oath.

37. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council, any Member may introduce any Bill or propose any motion for debate in, or may present any petition to, the Council, and the same shall be debated and disposed of according to the Standing Rules and Orders:

Provided that, except with the recommendation or consent of the Governor signified thereto, the Council shall not proceed upon any Bill, amendment, motion or petition, which, in the opinion of the Governor or of the presiding Member would—

(a) dispose of, or charge any public revenue or public funds of the Colony, or revoke or alter any disposition thereof or charge thereon, or impose, alter, or repeal any rate, tax or duty; or

(b) suspend the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council or any of them.

38.—(1) The sessions of the Legislative Council shall be held at such times and places as the Governor shall from time to time by Proclamation appoint.

(2) There shall be a session of the Council once at least in every year, so that a period of twelve months shall not intervene between the last sitting in one session and the first sitting in the next session.

39.—(1) The Governor may, at any time, by Proclamation, prorogue or dissolve the Legislative Council.

(2) On dissolution, all Members shall vacate their seats and the Council shall be reconstituted by election and appointment in accordance with the provisions of this Order at such time within three months of the dissolution, as the Governor shall by Proclamation appoint.

PART VI

TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

40.—(1) Until such time as section 13 and Parts IV and V of this Order shall come into operation, it shall be lawful for the Governor to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Colony.

(2) In making such laws the Governor shall consult the Advisory Council.

(3) Section 32 of the Order shall apply to any law made under this section as it applies to a law assented to by the Governor.

41.—(1) There shall be an Advisory Council which shall consist of the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary and such other persons as the Governor may by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint; and such persons shall hold their places in the said Council during the Governor's pleasure.

===== Page 319 =====
(2) The Governor alone shall be entitled to submit questions to the Advisory Council for their advice. The Governor may act in opposition to the advice given to him by the Members of the Advisory Council if he shall in any case deem it right so to do. In such case, it shall be competent to any Member of the Advisory Council to require that there be recorded on the Minutes any advice or opinion he may give upon the question and the grounds therefor.

(3) The Governor may regulate the procedure and practice of the Advisory Council in such manner as he shall see fit.

(4) The Governor may, by Proclamation in the Gazette, declare that this section shall cease to have effect, and thereupon this section shall cease to have effect accordingly on the date specified in the Proclamation.

42.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, the existing laws shall, except in so far as the same shall, in their application to the Colony or any part thereof be repealed, amended or otherwise affected by or under any Act of Parliament, Order of His Majesty in Council or any law made under the provisions of this Order, continue to have effect in the Colony or in that part thereof to which such law applied prior to the appointed day, but shall be construed subject to such modifications as may be necessary to bring them into conformity with the provisions of this Order.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section, the existing laws shall, except as aforesaid, in their application to the Colony, be construed, where the context admits, subject to the following modifications:

(a) references to the Colony of the Straits Settlements shall be construed as referring (but not exclusively) to the Colony;

(b) references to the Settlement of Singapore shall be construed as references to the Colony;

(c) references to the Governor or Governor in Council, or to any officer of the Colony of the Straits Settlements, or to any officer of, or authority or body constituted in or for, the Straits Settlements, shall be construed as references to the Governor or Governor in Council, or to the corresponding officer of, or authority or body constituted in or for the Colony, as the case may be; and

(d) references to the Chief Justice or to any Court, Judge or Magistrate of the Straits Settlements shall be construed as references to the Chief Justice or to the corresponding Court, Judge or Magistrate of the Colony.

(3) The adaptations and modifications specified in the second column of the Second Schedule to this Order shall be made in the enactments mentioned in the first column of that Schedule.

43. Subject to the express provisions of this Order, nothing in this Order shall affect the validity or future operation of any lawful act done by any person or authority before the appointed day in any territory comprised in the Colony.

===== Page 320 =====
44. All proceedings other than proceedings in the Prize Court commenced before the 15th day of February, 1942, in any Court of Justice in or having jurisdiction in the territory comprised in the Colony may be carried on in like manner as nearly as may be, as if this Order and the Act of 1946 had not been made or passed but in the corresponding Court of the Colony, and any such proceeding may be amended in such manner as may appear necessary or proper in order to bring it into conformity with the provisions of the Act of 1946 and of this Order.

45. Courts constituted for the Colony shall have within their respective powers, jurisdiction with respect to all offences (including offences against Proclamations issued by, or under the Authority of the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia) and causes of action (other than matters of Prize) committed or arising before the appointed day for which the accused might have been tried, or proceedings might have been had, within the Settlement of Singapore under the law (including the provisions of any such Proclamation) in force in the Straits Settlements prior to the appointed day, and such jurisdiction shall be exercised in conformity with the law applicable in the Settlement of Singapore at the date when the offence was committed or the cause of action arose and in accordance, as nearly as may be, with the procedure in force in Courts constituted under this Order.

46. Military Courts established in the Settlement of Singapore by the British Military Administration by virtue of any Proclamation made by, or under the authority of, the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia, in which proceedings have been commenced and are pending at the date hereof shall be deemed to be lawfully constituted Courts with jurisdiction to continue and conclude such proceedings and to issue warrants for the custody of prisoners and the carrying out of sentences in accordance with such Proclamation, after the appointed day. The powers and functions of a confirming authority or reviewing authority under any such Proclamation may be exercised by such person or persons as the Governor shall designate in that behalf.

47.—(1) In this section—

(i) “Straits Settlements property” means property which, immediately before the appointed day, was vested in, or was in the possession, or under the control, or held on account, of His Majesty, or the Government of the Straits Settlements, or any officer of such Government.

(ii) Any reference to property vested in any person or authority shall be construed as including a reference to any property in the possession, or under the control, or held on account, of that person or authority; and any direction that property shall be vested in any person or authority shall likewise be construed as including a direction, as the case may require, that the possession or control of property shall be transferred to, or that property shall be held on account of, that person or authority.

===== Page 321 =====
(2) Save as in this section otherwise provided, all Straits Settlements property which was immediately before the appointed day, either—

(a) immovable property situate in the Settlement of Singapore; or

(b) vested solely for a purpose of the Government of the Straits Settlements which will, after the appointed day, be a purpose of the Government of the Colony;

shall vest in His Majesty or in the appropriate officer of the Government of the Colony, or in the person or body prescribed under sub-section (6) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Colony.

(3) Save as in this section otherwise provided, any Straits Settlements property which was, immediately before the appointed day, vested for any purpose of the Straits Settlements Government common to the Settlement of Singapore and to any other territory or territories formerly included in the Straits Settlements, but not included in the Colony, shall vest in His Majesty or in the person or body prescribed under sub-section (6) of this section but shall be apportioned between the Colony and any such territory by agreement between the Governor and the Governor of such territory with the approval of a Secretary of State; or, in default of such agreement, shall be apportioned by order of a Secretary of State. Any such agreement or order may contain provision for the assessment of values, for the perfecting of any transfer of property mentioned therein, and for financial and other adjustments, and may contain such other provisions as may be considered necessary or expedient for carrying the apportionment into effect.

(4) Any Straits Settlements property apportioned to the Colony under sub-section (3) of this section shall be vested in His Majesty, or the appropriate officer of the Government of the Colony, or the persons or body prescribed under sub-section (6) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Colony; and the Governor may make such vesting or other orders as may be necessary for carrying the provisions of this section into effect, and for such purpose may appoint and empower persons to transfer property.

(5) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, any property which, immediately before the appointed day was vested in the Ruler of any of the Malay States, for any of the following purposes, shall continue to be vested in the Sultan of the State for the same purposes, that is to say:

(a) any property held by, or in trust for, or for the benefit of a Ruler for his official or personal use; or

(b) any building or land used for purposes of the Muhammadan religion, or property pertaining to the endowment of Muhammadan religious institutions:

Nothing in this section shall affect the use or enjoyment of any property vested in a Ruler or in His Majesty for any of the said purposes.

(6) The Governor may make regulations for determining, in cases of doubt, the person or body in whom property affected by this section shall be vested, and generally for giving effect to this section, and may by order, exclude any particular property from the operation of this section, or declare, for the removal of doubt, whether, and in what manner, any particular property is affected thereby.

===== Page 322 =====
48.—(1) All liabilities incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Straits Settlements for any of the purposes of such Government (other than liabilities incurred solely for a purpose which will, after the appointed day, be a purpose of the Government of any territory formerly included in the Straits Settlements, but not included in the Colony) shall be deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Colony.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section:

(a) Such liabilities shall include claims in respect of Loans and War Savings Certificates issued, and Post Office Savings Bank deposits received, by the Government of the Straits Settlements.

(b) Claims to pensions, gratuities and other like allowances in respect of service under the Government of the Straits Settlements before the appointed day, whether arising before or after that day, shall be liabilities deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Colony.

(3) It shall be lawful for the Governor, with the approval of a Secretary of State, to make, vary, rescind and carry into effect, arrangements with the Governor of any territory formerly included in the Straits Settlements, but not included in the Colony, for the payment by the Government of that territory to the Government of the Colony, of proportionate contributions towards the sums necessary to defray the liabilities of the Government of the Straits Settlements transferred by this Order to the Government of the Colony including liabilities for the service and repayment of Loans and War Savings Certificates issued, Post Office Savings Bank deposits received, and pensions, allowances and gratuities payable, by the Government of the Straits Settlements.

(4) Claims in respect of liabilities deemed, by virtue of this section, to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Colony which, if the Act of 1946 had not been passed and this Order had not been made, might have been enforced against His Majesty in His Government of the Straits Settlements, or against any officer of such Government in his official capacity or against any department of such Government, in connection with the administration of the Straits Settlements, may be enforced, in such manner as may be prescribed by laws for the time being in force or by regulations made by the Governor under sub-section (5) of this section, against His Majesty in His Government of the Colony or against the appropriate officer of that Government, as the case may be.

(5) The Governor, with the approval of a Secretary of State, may make regulations for determining in any case of doubt the person or body by or against whom claims may be enforced under this section and generally for giving effect thereto.

49. The provisions of sections 42 to 48 inclusive of this Order may be amended by laws made under Part V or under section 40 of this Order.

PART VII.

MISCELLANEOUS.

50.—(1) Provision may be made by laws made under this Order, and, until such provision has been made, by regulations made by the Governor, regulating any matter which by this Order or by Instructions under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet is to be prescribed.

Provisions necessary to give effect to this Order.

===== Page 323 =====
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section, provision may be made regulating the election to the Legislative Council of Elected Members, including provision for regulating any of the following matters, that is to say:

(a) the persons, associations or bodies by whom Members are to be elected;
(b) the holding of elections;
(c) the qualifications of voters;
(d) the registration of voters;
(e) the ascertainment of the qualifications of voters and candidates;
(f) offences in relation to elections including the trial and punishment thereof;
(g) the disposal of election petitions and the determination of questions otherwise arising regarding membership of the Council.

(3) Such regulations shall be published in the Gazette; and thereafter every such regulation shall take effect on the day of publication or on such other date as may be therein specified and shall have the force of law.

Unqualified persons sitting or voting. Penalty.

51.—(1) Any person who—

(a) having been elected or appointed a Member of the Legislative Council, but not having been, at the time of such election or appointment, qualified to be so elected or appointed, shall sit or vote in the Legislative Council; or

(b) shall sit or vote in the Legislative Council after his seat thereon has become vacant or he has become disqualified from sitting or voting therein;

knowing, or having reasonable grounds for knowing, that he was so disqualified, or that his seat has become vacant, as the case may be, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding two hundred dollars for every day upon which he so sits or votes.

(2) The said penalty shall be recoverable by action in the Supreme Court at the suit of the Attorney General.

Vacancies not to disqualify.

52. No Council constituted by this Order shall be disqualified from the transaction of business by reason of any vacancy among the Members, or by reason of the sitting or voting therein of any unqualified or disqualified person.

Retrospective effect of laws.

53. For the avoidance of doubts it is hereby declared that any law or regulation made under this Order may be made to operate retrospectively to any date.

Labuan.

54. Until other provision shall be made for the government and administration of the Settlement of Labuan and its Dependencies (in this section referred to as "Labuan") Labuan shall be a part of the Colony, and this Order shall have effect in all respects as if the Colony included Labuan:

Provided that the provisions of this Order shall not come into operation in Labuan until such day or days as the Governor may by Order appoint and the Governor may fix different days for different purposes and different provisions of this Order; and the Governor may by Order make such adaptations and modifications as the Governor may seem expedient, in the said provisions in their application to Labuan.

===== Page 324 =====
55.—(1) If any difficulty shall arise in bringing into operation any of the provisions of this Order or in giving effect to the purposes thereof, a Secretary of State may, by Order, make such provision as seems to him necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing the difficulty and may by such Order amend or add to any provision of this Order:

Provided that no Order under this section shall be made later than the first day of January, 1948.

(2) Any Order under this section may be amended, added to, or revoked by further Order, and may be given retrospective effect to a day not earlier than the appointed day.

56. Nothing in this Order shall affect the power of His Majesty in Council to make laws from time to time for the peace, order and good government of the Colony.

Power reserved to His Majesty.

E. C. E. Leadbitter.

===== Page 325 =====
FIRST SCHEDULE

OATH OF ALLEGIANCE.
(Sections 6 and 36).

I, ... do swear that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to His Majesty King George VI, His Heirs and Successors, according to Law. So help me God.

OATH FOR THE DUE EXECUTION OF THE OFFICE OF GOVERNOR.

I, ... do swear that I will well and truly serve His Majesty King George VI, His Heirs and Successors, in the Office of Governor. So help me God.

THE SECOND SCHEDULE.
(Section 42 (3)).

Adaptation of Acts of Parliament.

Title of Act.

1. The Straits Settlements Offences Act, 1874.

37 & 38 Vict. c. 38.

1. The Act shall have effect as if the word "territories" were substituted for the word "Colony" wherever such last mentioned word occurs; and the territories of the Straits Settlements (in the Act called the colony of the Straits Settlements) shall be deemed to include (among other territories) the Colony of Singapore.

2. The Straits Settlements and Johore Territorial Waters (Agreement) Act, 1928.

18 & 19 Geo. V. c. 23.

2. The Act and the agreement scheduled thereto shall have effect as if the words "the Colony of Singapore" were substituted for the words "the Straits Settlements" and for the words "the Settlement of Singapore" wherever such words occur.

Printed by His Majesty's Stationery Office Press,
Drury Lane, W.C.2.

===== Page 326 =====
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE
The 27th day of March, 1946
Present
THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL.

WHEREAS by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Act, 1946 (hereinafter referred to as "the Act of 1946"), it is (among other things) provided—

(1) that on such day as His Majesty may by Order in Council appoint (in the Act of 1946, and in this Order referred to as "the appointed day") the Straits Settlements Act, 1866, shall be repealed and the Straits Settlements, that is to say the settlements and dependencies mentioned in the Schedule to the Act of 1946 (which include among other settlements and dependencies, the Settlement of Singapore and its dependencies, the Cocos or Keeling Islands and Christmas Island) shall cease to be a single Colony;

(2) that on and after the appointed day the said settlements and dependencies shall be divided into such territories as His Majesty may by Order in Council direct and those territories shall be governed, either singly or in conjunction with such other territories (whether falling within the Schedule to the Act of 1946 or not) as may be specified in the Order and that such Order in Council may contain such consequential and other provisions as are contained in this Order; and

(3) that the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945, shall apply in relation to each of the territories into which the said settlements and dependencies are divided by Order under this Act as if it were a British settlement as so defined:

AND WHEREAS by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Order in Council, 1946, it is provided that the appointed day shall be the first day of April, 1946.

NOW, THEREFORE, His Majesty, by virtue and in exercise of the powers in that behalf by the Act of 1946 and by the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945, or otherwise in His Majesty vested, is pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council, to order, and it is hereby ordered, as follows:

PART I.

PRELIMINARY.

1.—(1) This Order may be cited as the Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946, and shall come into operation on the appointed day.

(2) Section 13 and Parts IV and V of this Order shall not come into operation on the appointed day, but shall come into operation on such day or days respectively within six months from the appointed day as may be fixed by the Governor by Proclamation in the Gazette, and the Governor may fix different days for different purposes and different provisions of that section and those Parts:

===== Page 327 =====
Provided also that the said period of six months may be extended by the Governor, by Proclamation in the Gazette, for such further period as may be approved by a Secretary of State.

2.—(1) In this Order, unless the context otherwise requires—

“the Chief Justice” means the Chief Justice of the Colony;

“the Colony” means the Colony of Singapore as constituted by this Order;

“the existing laws” means the common law, the doctrines of equity, and all Acts of Parliament, Orders in Council, Ordinances of the Legislature of the Colony of the Straits Settlements, Proclamations issued by the Governor of the Straits Settlements, or by or under the authority of the Supreme Allied Commander South East Asia (other than the Proclamations establishing the British Military Administration and delegating powers thereunder), and all Rules, Regulations and By-laws made thereunder and all other enactments or instruments having the force of law in the territory comprising the Colony or in any part thereof immediately prior to the appointed day, whether the same were administered by the British Military Administration or not;

“the Gazette” means the Official Gazette of the Colony;

“the Governor” means the Governor and Commander-in-Chief for the time being of the Colony and includes any officer for the time being administering the government thereof and, to the extent that a Deputy to the Governor is authorised to act, that Deputy;

“the Governor in Council” means the Governor acting after consultation with, but not necessarily in accordance with the advice of the Executive Council of the Colony; nor necessarily in such Council assembled; and, until section 13 of this Order is in operation, means the Governor;

“Malayan Union Citizen” means a citizen of the Malayan Union within the meaning of any Order in Council which may provide for Malayan Union citizenship.

“prescribed” means prescribed by any law made under this Order or by regulation made by the Governor under section 50;

“property” includes all property movable or immovable, and all estates, interests, easements and rights whether equitable or legal, in, to or out of property, and things in action and rights to revenue, taxes, duties and other dues; and “vested” in relation to property includes rights to property which are contingent and rights in remainder or reversion;

“the Public Seal” means the public seal of the Colony and includes the official stamp mentioned in section 9 of this Order;

“session” means the sittings of the Legislative Council commencing when the Council first meets after being constituted under this Order, or after its prorogation or dissolution at any time, and terminating when the Council is prorogued or is dissolved without having been prorogued;

“the Settlement of Singapore” means the Island of Singapore and its dependencies, Christmas Island, the Cocos or Keeling Islands, and all islands and places which, on the fifteenth day of February, 1942, were known and administered as part of such Settlement, and the territorial waters adjacent thereto;

===== Page 328 =====
“Sitting” means any sitting or sittings of the Legislative Council commencing when the Council first meets after being summoned at any time and terminating when the Council is adjourned sine die or at the conclusion of a session without adjournment; and “the Supreme Court” means the Supreme Court of the Colony.

(2) For the purposes of this Order, where reference is made to any public officer by the term designating his office, such reference means the officer for the time being discharging the functions of that office.

(3) For the purposes of this Order, a person shall not be deemed to hold an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony by reason only that he is in receipt of a pension or other like allowance in respect of service under the Crown.

If it shall be declared by any law for the time being in force in the Colony that an office shall not be an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony for all or any of the purposes of this Order, this Order shall have effect accordingly as if such law were enacted herein.

(4) The Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply for the interpretation of this Order as it applies for the interpretation of an Act of Parliament.

3. The Island of Singapore and its dependencies, the Cocos or Keeling Islands, and Christmas Island shall be governed and administered as a separate Colony and shall be called the Colony of Singapore.

PART II.

THE GOVERNOR AND EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.

4. There shall be a Governor and Commander-in-Chief (hereinafter called “the Governor”) in and over the Colony, and appointments to the said office shall be made by Commission under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet.

5. The Governor is hereby empowered and commanded to do all things that belong to his said office in accordance with this Order and such Commission as may be issued to him under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet and according to such Instructions as may from time to time be given to him under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet, or through a Secretary of State, and such Orders in Council and other laws as may from time to time be in force in the Colony.

6. Every person appointed to fill the office of Governor shall, before entering on any of the duties of his office, cause the Commission appointing him to be Governor to be read and published at the seat of Government, in the presence of the Chief Justice or, in his absence, of some other Judge of the Supreme Court, and, if section 13 of this Order is in force, of such members of the Executive Council of the Colony as can conveniently attend; and shall take before them the Oath of Allegiance and the Oath for the due execution of the office of Governor in the forms set out in the First Schedule to this Order, which Oaths the Chief Justice or other Judge as aforesaid shall administer.

7.—(1) Whenever the office of Governor is vacant or the Governor is absent from the Colony or the Governor is from any cause prevented from, or incapable of, performing the duties of his office, then such person as His Majesty may appoint under His Sign Manual and Signet or if there is no such person in the Colony so appointed and capable of discharging the duties of administration, the Senior Member of the

===== Page 329 =====
Executive Council then in the Colony and so capable, shall, during His Majesty’s pleasure, administer the Government of the Colony, first taking in manner in this Order prescribed the Oaths directed by this Order to be taken by the Governor. Thereupon such person or Member is hereby empowered, subject, if he is so appointed as aforesaid, to the terms of his appointment, to do, during His Majesty’s pleasure, all things that belong to the Office of Governor as provided in this Order:

Provided that the Governor or any person appointed as aforesaid shall not be regarded as absent from the Colony or prevented from or incapable of performing the duties of his office for the purposes of this Order, during his passage from one part of the Colony to another or during a visit to the Malayan Union or when there is a subsisting appointment of a Deputy under the next succeeding section of this Order.

(2) Any such person as aforesaid shall not continue to administer the Government after the Governor or some other person having a prior right to administer the same has notified that he is about to assume or resume the administration.

8.—(1) Whenever the Governor has occasion to be absent from the seat of Government but not from the Colony or to be absent from the Colony for a period which he has reason to believe will be of short duration or whenever by reason of illness which he has reason to believe will be of short duration he considers it desirable so to do, he may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint any person resident in the Colony to be his Deputy during such absence or illness, and in that capacity to exercise and perform for and on behalf of the Governor during such absence or illness all such functions of the Governor as shall be specified in such Instrument.

(2) By the appointment of a Deputy as aforesaid the power and authority of the Governor shall not be abridged, altered, or in any way affected otherwise than as His Majesty may at any time direct, and every such Deputy shall conform to and observe all such instructions as the Governor shall from time to time address to him for his guidance.

(3) Any appointment under this section may at any time be revoked by the Governor or by a Secretary of State and in case of absence as aforesaid, shall cease and determine upon the return of the Governor to the seat of Government or to the Colony, as the case may be.

Public Seal.

9. The Governor shall keep and use the Public Seal of the Colony for sealing all things that shall pass the said Seal. Until a Public Seal shall be provided for the Colony, an official stamp bearing the inscription “Colony of Singapore. Public Seal” may be used as the Public Seal.

Grants of land.

10. Subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force in the Colony and of any Instructions from time to time given to the Governor under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, the Governor, in His Majesty’s name and on His Majesty’s behalf, may make and execute, under the Public Seal, grants and dispositions of any lands within the Colony which may be lawfully granted or disposed of by His Majesty.

Suspension or dismissal of officers.

11. Subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force in the Colony and to any instructions from time to time given to him by His Majesty through a Secretary of State, the Governor, for cause shown to his satisfaction, may dismiss or suspend from the exercise of his office any person holding any public office within the Colony, or, may take such other disciplinary action as may seem to him desirable.

===== Page 330 =====
12. When any offence has been committed for which the offender may be tried within the Colony, the Governor may, as he shall see occasion, in His Majesty's name and on His Majesty's behalf, grant a pardon to any accomplice in such offence who shall give such information as shall lead to the conviction of the principal offender or any one of such offenders if more than one; and further may grant to any offender convicted of any such offence in any Court within the Colony, a pardon either free or subject to lawful conditions, or any respite either indefinite or for such period as the Governor may see fit, of the execution of any sentence passed on such offender and may remit the whole or any part of such sentence or of any penalties or forfeitures otherwise due to His Majesty.

13. There shall be an Executive Council for the Colony, and the said Council shall consist of such persons as His Majesty shall direct by Instructions under His Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, and all such persons shall hold their places in the Executive Council during His Majesty's pleasure and, subject thereto, for such period and upon such conditions as may be specified in any such Instructions.

PART III.

COURTS.

14.—(1) There shall be in and for the Colony a Court of unlimited civil and criminal jurisdiction to be called the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court shall be a Court of Record and may consist of a High Court and a Court of Appeal.

(2) There shall be a Chief Justice appointed by His Majesty by Letters Patent, or by the Governor by Letters Patent under the Public Seal in accordance with such instructions as he may receive from His Majesty through a Secretary of State, and as many Judges of the Supreme Court, appointed similarly or in manner prescribed, as may from time to time be required. The Chief Justice and Judges of the Supreme Court shall hold office during His Majesty's pleasure.

(3) The constitution, powers and procedure of the Supreme Court and provisions relating to appeals therefrom to His Majesty in Council and provisions relating to the qualifications, order of precedence, duties and powers of Judges, and appointment of temporary Judges, may, subject to the provisions of this Order, be prescribed by laws made under this Order.

15.—(1) Courts subordinate to the Supreme Court and Courts of special jurisdiction may be constituted by laws made under this Order.

(2) Provision may be made by such laws for the hearing and determining of appeals from any such Court by the Supreme Court or otherwise.

PART IV.

LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.

16.—(1) There shall be a Legislative Council in and for the Colony, constituted in accordance with the provisions of this Order.

(2) The Council shall consist of the Governor as President, four ex officio Members, and such Nominated Official Members, not exceeding seven, such Nominated Unofficial Members not exceeding two, and such

===== Page 331 =====
Elected Members not exceeding nine as His Majesty shall direct by Instructions under His Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State.

17. The ex officio Members shall be the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary, and the President of the Municipal Commissioners.

18. The Nominated Official Members shall be persons holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony, and shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of His Majesty’s Instructions through a Secretary of State.

19. The Nominated Unofficial Members shall be British subjects or Malayan Union citizens of the age of twenty-one or upwards not holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony, and shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of His Majesty’s Instructions through a Secretary of State.

20. The Elected Members shall be British subjects of the age of twenty-one years or upwards, not holding any office of emolument under the Crown, qualified as voters under any prescribed provision, who, the prescribed person is satisfied, are able to speak, and unless incapacitated by blindness or other physical cause, to read and write, the English language with a degree of proficiency sufficient to enable them to take an active part in the proceedings of the Council. Elected Members shall be elected in the manner prescribed.

21. No person shall be capable of being appointed or elected a Member of the Legislative Council or, having been appointed or elected, shall sit and vote therein, who at the time of appointment or election—

(1) is a person found or declared to be of unsound mind under any law in force in the Colony; or

(2) has, in any part of His Majesty’s dominions or in any territory under His Majesty’s protection, been sentenced to death or penal servitude or to imprisonment by whatever name called, for a term exceeding six months and has not either suffered the punishment to which he was sentenced or such other punishment as may by competent authority have been substituted therefor or received a free pardon; or

(3) is an undischarged bankrupt; or

(4) (a) in the case of a Nominated Unofficial Member is a party to, or a member of a firm or a director or manager of a company which is a party to, any subsisting contract with the Government of the Colony for or on account of the public service or is otherwise to his knowledge interested in any such contract and shall not have disclosed to the Governor the nature of such contract and his interest or the interest, or any such firm or company therein; or

(b) in the case of an Elected Member, is a party to, or a member of a firm, or a director or manager of a company which is a party to any subsisting contract with the Government of the Colony for or on account of the public service or is otherwise to his knowledge interested in any such contract and has not published within one month before the day of election, in the Gazette or in some newspaper circulating in the Colony, a notice setting out the nature of such contract and his interest or the interest of any such firm or company therein; or

(5) in the case of an Elected Member is disqualified for membership of the Council under any law for the time being in force in the Colony relating to offences connected with the election of Members.

===== Page 332 =====
22.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, every Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council shall hold his seat in the Legislative Council during His Majesty's pleasure.

(2) Every Member shall in any case cease to be a Member at the next dissolution of the Legislative Council after his appointment or election, or previously if his seat shall become vacant under the provisions of this Order.

(3) The seat of a Member of the Legislative Council (other than an ex officio Member) shall become vacant—

(a) upon his death; or

(b) if he shall, without the leave of the Governor, be absent from two consecutive meetings of the Council; or

(c) if he shall cease to be a British subject; or shall take any oath, or make any declaration or acknowledgment of allegiance, obedience or adherence to any foreign power or State; or shall do, concur in or adopt any act done with the intention that he shall become a subject or citizen of any foreign Power or State; or

(d) if he shall be declared a bankrupt under any law in force in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection; or

(e) if in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection, he shall be sentenced to death, or imprisonment, by whatever name called, for a term exceeding six months; or

(f) if he shall be found or declared insane under any law in force in the Colony; or

(g) if he shall become disqualified for membership of the Council under any law or regulation for the time being in force in the Colony relating to offences connected with the election of Members; or

(h) if, being a Nominated Official Member, a Nominated Unofficial Member or Elected Member, he shall, by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor resign his seat in the Legislative Council; or

(i) if, being a Nominated Official Member, he shall cease to hold office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony; or

(j) if, being an Elected Member, he shall be appointed to or act in any such office or being a Nominated Unofficial Member he shall be appointed permanently to any such office; or

(k) if he shall otherwise cease to possess qualification for election or appointment, as the case may be; or

(l) if, being a Nominated Unofficial Member or Elected Member, he shall, without the approval of the Governor, become a party to, or if any firm in which he is a partner, or any company of which he is a director or manager, shall become a party to, or if he shall be otherwise interested in, any contract with the Government of the Colony for or on account of the Public service and shall not before the making of the contract have disclosed to the Governor the nature of such contract and his interest, or the interest of any such firm or company therein.

===== Page 333 =====
(4) If a Nominated Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council shall be appointed temporarily to any office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony, or shall be appointed to act in any such office, he shall not sit or vote in the Legislative Council as an Unofficial Member so long as he continues to hold or to act in that office.

(5) Any person vacating a seat as a Member of the Legislative Council may, if qualified, be again appointed or elected as a Member from time to time.

(6) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council, and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared, in manner aforesaid, to be again capable of discharging his said functions.

(7) The Governor may by Instrument under the Public Seal suspend any Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the Legislative Council. Every such suspension shall forthwith be reported by the Governor to His Majesty through a Secretary of State, and shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal or by His Majesty through a Secretary of State, or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the Legislative Council.

(8) All questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain an Elected Member shall be determined in such manner as may be prescribed.

(9) All questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain a Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member shall be referred to and decided by the Governor in Council, whose decision shall be final and shall not be called in question in any Court in the Colony.

23.—(1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Legislative Council, as ex officio Members, or Nominated Official Members or Nominated Unofficial Members, by reason of the fact that—

(a) an ex officio Member is administering the Government of the Colony; or

(b) one person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the four officers specified in section 17 of this Order; or

(c) no person is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or

(d) a Nominated Official Member is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or

(e) the seat of a Nominated Official Member or of a Nominated Unofficial Member is vacant for any cause other than a dissolution of the Council; or

(f) a Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in this Order, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or

(g) a Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or

===== Page 334 =====
(h) a Member is absent from the Colony; or

(i) a Nominated Unofficial Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of his having been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony or to act in any such office;

the Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint a person to be a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) If the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Nominated Official Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as a Nominated Official Member; and if the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Nominated Unofficial Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as a Nominated Unofficial Member.

(3) Every person appointed to be a Temporary Member under this section shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Nominated Official Members, a Nominated Official Member;

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Nominated Unofficial Members, a Nominated Unofficial Member;

and, subject to the provisions of this section, the provisions of section 22 of this Order shall apply accordingly:

Provided that, in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed shall not be regarded as a Nominated Official Member in computing the number of such Members for the purposes of sub-section (2) of section 16 of this Order.

(4) The Governor shall forthwith report every such temporary appointment to His Majesty through a Secretary of State. Any such appointment may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be disallowed by His Majesty through a Secretary of State or revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment under this section shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of disallowance by His Majesty or of revocation by the Governor or on supersession of the appointment by the definitive appointment of a person to fill the vacancy or when the vacancy shall otherwise cease to exist.

24. The Governor may summon to any meeting of the Legislative Council any person holding public office under the Crown in the Colony, notwithstanding that such person may not be a Member of the Council, when, in the opinion of the Governor, the business before the Council renders the presence of such person desirable. Any person so summoned shall be entitled to take part in the proceedings of the Council relating to the business in respect of which he is summoned as if he were a Member of the Council, except that he shall not have the right to vote in the Council.

25. The Governor, if present, shall preside at meetings of the Council, and, in his absence, such Member as the Governor may appoint or, in the absence of such Member, or if no Member be so appointed, the senior Member of Council actually present shall preside.

===== Page 335 =====
Quorum.

26. No business except that of adjournment shall be transacted by the Council if objection is taken by any Member present that there are present less than one quarter of the Members besides the Governor or other Member presiding.

Precedence of Members.

27. — (1) After the Governor the Members of the Council shall take precedence as His Majesty may specially assign and, if precedence be not so assigned, as follows:

First, the ex officio Members in the order in which they are mentioned in section 17 of this Order;

Secondly, the Nominated Official Members appointed under section 18 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments as Nominated Official Members, or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Thirdly, Nominated Official Members temporarily appointed under section 23 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Fourthly, the Nominated Unofficial Members and Elected Members according to the lengths of time during which they have been continuously Members of the Council: Members elected or appointed at the same time taking precedence among themselves as the Governor may assign.

(2) For the purposes of the preceding sub-section—

(a) when the Council is dissolved, Nominated Official Members and Nominated Unofficial Members appointed to fill vacancies caused thereby shall be deemed to have been appointed, and Members elected at the ensuing elections shall be deemed to have been elected by virtue of those elections, at the date on which the report of the first successful candidate for election is made to the Governor; and

(b) paragraph (a) of this sub-section shall apply to the Members elected or appointed to the Legislative Council as first constituted under this Order as if such elections or appointments were consequent upon a dissolution of the Council; and

(c) in ascertaining the period during which a person has continuously been an Elected Member or a Nominated Unofficial Member of the Council, no account shall be taken of any interval between the vacation by that person of his seat in the Council in consequence of a dissolution of the Council and the date of his re-election or re-appointment to fill a vacancy in the Council caused by that dissolution.

Part V

LEGISLATION AND PROCEDURE IN LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL

Power to make laws.

28. Subject to the provisions of this Order, it shall be lawful for the Governor, with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council, to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Colony.

===== Page 336 =====
29. Save as otherwise provided in this Order, all questions proposed for decision in the Council shall be determined by a majority of the votes of the Members present and voting. The Governor shall not have an original vote, but, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, he shall have a casting vote. In the absence of the Governor, the Member presiding shall have an original vote and also, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, a casting vote.

30.—(1) If the Governor shall consider that it is expedient in the interests of public order, public faith or good government that any Bill introduced or any motion proposed in the Council shall have effect, then if the Council fail to pass such a Bill or motion within such time and in such form as the Governor may think reasonable and expedient, the Governor, at any time in his discretion, may, notwithstanding any provisions of this Order or of any Standing Rules or Orders of the Council, declare that such Bill or motion shall have effect as if it had been passed by the Council, either in the form in which it was so introduced or proposed or with such amendments as the Governor shall think fit which have been moved or proposed in the Council or in any Committee thereof; and thereupon the said Bill or motion shall have effect as if it had been so passed, and, in the case of any such Bill, the provisions of this Order, relating to assent to Bills and disallowance of laws shall apply accordingly.

(2) In this section the expression "public order, public faith or good government" shall without prejudice to their generality, include the following:

(a) the responsibility of the Colony as a component part of the British Empire, including foreign relations and relations with other parts of the British Empire;

(b) all questions relating to defence, including provision, construction, maintenance and use of defence works, areas and communications;

(c) subjects upon which, in the opinion of the Governor or of a Secretary of State, it is necessary to secure uniformity in Legislation between the Colony and the Malayan Union; and

(d) all matters pertaining to the creation or abolition of any public office and to the appointment, salary or other conditions of service of any public officer or officers.

(3) The Governor shall forthwith report to a Secretary of State every case in which he shall make any such declaration as is mentioned in sub-section (1) of this section and the reason therefor.

(4) If any Member of the Legislative Council objects to any declaration made under this section, he may, within seven days of the making thereof, submit to the Governor a statement in writing of his reasons for so objecting and a copy of such statement shall, if furnished by such Member, be forwarded by the Governor as soon as practicable to a Secretary of State.

(5) Any such declaration, other than a declaration relating to a Bill, may be revoked by a Secretary of State, and the Governor shall notify such revocation in the Gazette; and from the date of such notification any resolution which shall have had effect by virtue of the declaration revoked shall cease to have effect and the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 38 of the Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply to such revocation as they apply to the repeal of an Act of Parliament.

===== Page 337 =====
31.—(1) No Bill shall become a law until either the Governor shall assent thereto in His Majesty’s name and on His Majesty’s behalf, and shall sign the same in token of assent, or His Majesty shall give his assent thereto through a Secretary of State.

(2) When a Bill is presented to the Governor for his assent, he shall, according to his discretion, but subject to the provisions of this Order and of any instructions addressed to him under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, declare that he assents or refuses to assent thereto, or that he reserves the Bill for the signification of His Majesty’s pleasure.

(3) A law assented to by the Governor shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the date on which such assent shall be given, or, if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment (including any enactment in force at the commencement of this Order) that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

(4) A Bill reserved for the signification of His Majesty’s pleasure shall become a law so soon as His Majesty shall have given His assent thereto, through a Secretary of State, and the Governor shall have signified such assent by Proclamation in the Gazette. Every such law shall come into operation on the date of such Proclamation or, if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment (including any enactment in force at the commencement of this Order) that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

32.—(1) Any law to which the Governor shall have given his assent may be disallowed by His Majesty through a Secretary of State.

(2) Whenever any law has been disallowed by His Majesty, the Governor shall cause notice of such disallowance to be published in the Gazette.

(3) Without prejudice to anything lawfully done thereunder, every law so disallowed shall cease to have effect as soon as notice of such disallowance shall be published as aforesaid. Thereafter any enactment repealed or amended by such law shall have effect as if such law had not been made, but save as aforesaid, the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 38 of the Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply to such disallowance as they apply to the repeal of an Act of Parliament.

33. Subject to the provisions of this Order, the Governor and the Council shall, in the transaction of business and the passing of laws, conform as nearly as may be to the directions contained in any Instructions under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet which may from time to time be addressed to the Governor in that behalf.

34. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of such Instructions as aforesaid, the Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its own proceedings and the conduct of business and for the passing, intitulating and numbering of Bills, and for the presentation of the same to the Governor for his assent, but no such Rules or Orders shall have effect unless and until they shall have been approved by the Governor.

35. The official language of the Council shall be English.

===== Page 338 =====
36. Except for the purpose of enabling this section to be complied with, no Member shall sit or vote in the Council until he shall have taken and subscribed before the Governor, or some person authorised by the Governor in that behalf, the Oath of Allegiance in the form set out in the First Schedule to this Order:

Provided that every person authorised by law to make an affirmation instead of taking an oath in legal proceedings may make such affirmation in like terms instead of the said oath.

37. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council, any Member may introduce any Bill or propose any motion for debate in, or may present any petition to, the Council, and the same shall be debated and disposed of according to the Standing Rules and Orders:

Provided that, except with the recommendation or consent of the Governor signified thereto, the Council shall not proceed upon any Bill, amendment, motion or petition, which, in the opinion of the Governor or of the presiding Member would—

(a) dispose of, or charge any public revenue or public funds of the Colony, or revoke or alter any disposition thereof or charge thereon, or impose, alter, or repeal any rate, tax or duty; or

(b) suspend the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council or any of them.

38.—(1) The sessions of the Legislative Council shall be held at such times and places as the Governor shall from time to time by Proclamation appoint.

(2) There shall be a session of the Council once at least in every year, so that a period of twelve months shall not intervene between the last sitting in one session and the first sitting in the next session.

39.—(1) The Governor may, at any time, by Proclamation, prorogue or dissolve the Legislative Council.

(2) On dissolution, all Members shall vacate their seats and the Council shall be reconstituted by election and appointment in accordance with the provisions of this Order at such time within three months of the dissolution, as the Governor shall by Proclamation appoint.

PART VI

TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

40.—(1) Until such time as section 13 and Parts IV and V of this Order shall come into operation, it shall be lawful for the Governor to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Colony.

(2) In making such laws the Governor shall consult the Advisory Council.

(3) Section 32 of the Order shall apply to any law made under this section as it applies to a law assented to by the Governor.

41.—(1) There shall be an Advisory Council which shall consist of the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary and such other persons as the Governor may by Instrument under the Public Seal appoint; and such persons shall hold their places in the said Council during the Governor's pleasure.

===== Page 339 =====
(2) The Governor alone shall be entitled to submit questions to the Advisory Council for their advice. The Governor may act in opposition to the advice given to him by the Members of the Advisory Council if he shall in any case deem it right so to do. In such case, it shall be competent to any Member of the Advisory Council to require that there be recorded on the Minutes any advice or opinion he may give upon the question and the grounds therefor.

(3) The Governor may regulate the procedure and practice of the Advisory Council in such manner as he shall see fit.

(4) The Governor may, by Proclamation in the Gazette, declare that this section shall cease to have effect, and thereupon this section shall cease to have effect accordingly on the date specified in the Proclamation.

42.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, the existing laws shall, except in so far as the same shall, in their application to the Colony or any part thereof be repealed, amended or otherwise affected by or under any Act of Parliament, Order of His Majesty in Council or any law made under the provisions of this Order, continue to have effect in the Colony or in that part thereof to which such law applied prior to the appointed day, but shall be construed subject to such modifications as may be necessary to bring them into conformity with the provisions of this Order.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section, the existing laws shall, except as aforesaid, in their application to the Colony, be construed, where the context admits, subject to the following modifications:

(a) references to the Colony of the Straits Settlements shall be construed as referring (but not exclusively) to the Colony;

(b) references to the Settlement of Singapore shall be construed as references to the Colony;

(c) references to the Governor or Governor in Council, or to any officer of the Colony of the Straits Settlements, or to any officer of, or authority or body constituted in or for, the Straits Settlements, shall be construed as references to the Governor or Governor in Council, or to the corresponding officer of, or authority or body constituted in or for the Colony, as the case may be; and

(d) references to the Chief Justice or to any Court, Judge or Magistrate of the Straits Settlements shall be construed as references to the Chief Justice or to the corresponding Court, Judge or Magistrate of the Colony.

(3) The adaptations and modifications specified in the second column of the Second Schedule to this Order shall be made in the enactments mentioned in the first column of that Schedule.

43. Subject to the express provisions of this Order, nothing in this Order shall affect the validity or future operation of any lawful act done by any person or authority before the appointed day in any territory comprised in the Colony.

===== Page 340 =====
44. All proceedings other than proceedings in the Prize Court commenced before the 15th day of February 1942 in any Court of Justice in or having jurisdiction in the territory comprised in the Colony may be carried on in like manner as nearly as may be as if this Order and the Act of 1946 had not been made or passed but in the corresponding Court of the Colony, and any such proceeding may be amended in such manner as may appear necessary or proper in order to bring it into conformity with the provisions of the Act of 1946 and of this Order.

45. Courts constituted for the Colony shall have within their respective powers jurisdiction with respect to all offences (including offences against Proclamations issued by or under the Authority of the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia) and causes of action (other than matters of Prize) committed or arising before the appointed day for which the accused might have been tried or proceedings might have been had within the Settlement of Singapore under the law (including the provisions of any such Proclamation) in force in the Straits Settlements prior to the appointed day, and such jurisdiction shall be exercised in conformity with the law applicable in the Settlement of Singapore at the date when the offence was committed or the cause of action arose and in accordance as nearly as may be with the procedure in force in Courts constituted under this Order.

46. Military Courts established in the Settlement of Singapore by the British Military Administration by virtue of any Proclamation made by or under the authority of the Supreme Allied Commander South East Asia, in which proceedings have been commenced and are pending at the date hereof shall be deemed to be lawfully constituted Courts with jurisdiction to continue and conclude such proceedings and to issue warrants for the custody of prisoners and the carrying out of sentences in accordance with such Proclamation after the appointed day. The powers and functions of a confirming authority or reviewing authority under any such Proclamation may be exercised by such person or persons as the Governor shall designate in that behalf.

47.—(i) In this section—

(i) "Straits Settlements property" means property which immediately before the appointed day was vested in or was in the possession or under the control or held on account of His Majesty or the Government of the Straits Settlements or any officer of such Government.

(ii) Any reference to property vested in any person or authority shall be construed as including a reference to any property in the possession or under the control or held on account of that person or authority; and any direction that property shall be vested in any person or authority shall likewise be construed as including a direction, as the case may require, that the possession or control of property shall be transferred to or that property shall be held on account of that person or authority.

===== Page 341 =====
(2) Save as in this section otherwise provided, all Straits Settlements property which was immediately before the appointed day, either—

(a) immovable property situate in the Settlement of Singapore; or

(b) vested solely for a purpose of the Government of the Straits Settlements which will, after the appointed day, be a purpose of the Government of the Colony;

shall vest in His Majesty or in the appropriate officer of the Government of the Colony, or in the person or body prescribed under sub-section (6) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Colony.

(3) Save as in this section otherwise provided, any Straits Settlements property which was, immediately before the appointed day, vested for any purpose of the Straits Settlements Government common to the Settlement of Singapore and to any other territory or territories formerly included in the Straits Settlements, but not included in the Colony, shall vest in His Majesty or in the person or body prescribed under sub-section (6) of this section but shall be apportioned between the Colony and any such territory by agreement between the Governor and the Governor of such territory with the approval of a Secretary of State; or, in default of such agreement, shall be apportioned by order of a Secretary of State. Any such agreement or order may contain provision for the assessment of values, for the perfecting of any transfer of property mentioned therein, and for financial and other adjustments, and may contain such other provisions as may be considered necessary or expedient for carrying the apportionment into effect.

(4) Any Straits Settlements property apportioned to the Colony under sub-section (3) of this section shall be vested in His Majesty, or the appropriate officer of the Government of the Colony, or the persons or body prescribed under sub-section (6) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Colony; and the Governor may make such vesting or other orders as may be necessary for carrying the provisions of this section into effect, and for such purpose may appoint and empower persons to transfer property.

(5) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, any property which, immediately before the appointed day was vested in the Ruler of any of the Malay States, for any of the following purposes, shall continue to be vested in the Sultan of the State for the same purposes, that is to say:

(a) any property held by, or in trust for, or for the benefit of a Ruler for his official or personal use; or

(b) any building or land used for purposes of the Muhammadan religion, or property pertaining to the endowment of Muhammadan religious institutions:

Nothing in this section shall affect the use or enjoyment of any property vested in a Ruler or in His Majesty for any of the said purposes.

(6) The Governor may make regulations for determining, in cases of doubt, the person or body in whom property affected by this section shall be vested, and generally for giving effect to this section, and may by order, exclude any particular property from the operation of this section, or declare, for the removal of doubt, whether, and in what manner, any particular property is affected thereby.

===== Page 342 =====
48.—(1) All liabilities incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Straits Settlements for any of the purposes of such Government (other than liabilities incurred solely for a purpose which will, after the appointed day, be a purpose of the Government of any territory formerly included in the Straits Settlements but not included in the Colony) shall be deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Colony.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section:

(a) Such liabilities shall include claims in respect of Loans and War Savings Certificates issued, and Post Office Savings Bank deposits received, by the Government of the Straits Settlements.

(b) Claims to pensions, gratuities and other like allowances in respect of service under the Government of the Straits Settlements before the appointed day, whether arising before or after that day, shall be liabilities deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Colony.

(3) It shall be lawful for the Governor, with the approval of a Secretary of State, to make, vary, rescind and carry into effect arrangements with the Governor of any territory formerly included in the Straits Settlements but not included in the Colony, for the payment by the Government of that territory to the Government of the Colony of proportionate contributions towards the sums necessary to defray the liabilities of the Government of the Straits Settlements transferred by this Order to the Government of the Colony including liabilities for the service and repayment of Loans and War Savings Certificates issued, Post Office Savings Bank deposits received, and pensions, allowances and gratuities payable, by the Government of the Straits Settlements.

(4) Claims in respect of liabilities deemed, by virtue of this section, to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Colony which, if the Act of 1946 had not been passed and this Order had not been made, might have been enforced against His Majesty in His Government of the Straits Settlements, or against any officer of such Government in his official capacity or against any department of such Government, in connection with the administration of the Straits Settlements, may be enforced, in such manner as may be prescribed by laws for the time being in force or by regulations made by the Governor under sub-section (5) of this section, against His Majesty in His Government of the Colony or against the appropriate officer of that Government, as the case may be.

(5) The Governor, with the approval of a Secretary of State, may make regulations for determining in any case of doubt the person or body by or against whom claims may be enforced under this section and generally for giving effect thereto.

49. The provisions of sections 42 to 48 inclusive of this Order may be amended by laws made under Part V or under section 40 of this Order.

PART VII.

MISCELLANEOUS.

50.—(1) Provision may be made by laws made under this Order, and, until such provision has been made, by regulations made by the Governor, regulating any matter which by this Order or by Instructions under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet is to be prescribed.

Provisions necessary to give effect to this Order.

===== Page 343 =====
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section, provision may be made regulating the election to the Legislative Council of Elected Members, including provision for regulating any of the following matters, that is to say:

(a) the persons, associations or bodies by whom Members are to be elected;
(b) the holding of elections;
(c) the qualifications of voters;
(d) the registration of voters;
(e) the ascertainment of the qualifications of voters and candidates;
(f) offences in relation to elections including the trial and punishment thereof;
(g) the disposal of election petitions and the determination of questions otherwise arising regarding membership of the Council.

(3) Such regulations shall be published in the Gazette; and thereafter every such regulation shall take effect on the day of publication or on such other date as may be therein specified and shall have the force of law.

Unqualified persons sitting or voting. Penalty.

51.—(1) Any person who—

(a) having been elected or appointed a Member of the Legislative Council, but not having been, at the time of such election or appointment, qualified to be so elected or appointed, shall sit or vote in the Legislative Council; or

(b) shall sit or vote in the Legislative Council after his seat thereon has become vacant or he has become disqualified from sitting or voting therein;

knowing, or having reasonable grounds for knowing, that he was so disqualified, or that his seat has become vacant, as the case may be, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding two hundred dollars for every day upon which he so sits or votes.

(2) The said penalty shall be recoverable by action in the Supreme Court at the suit of the Attorney General.

Vacancies not to disqualify.

52. No Council constituted by this Order shall be disqualified from the transaction of business by reason of any vacancy among the Members, or by reason of the sitting or voting therein of any unqualified or disqualified person.

Retrospective effect of laws.

53. For the avoidance of doubts it is hereby declared that any law or regulation made under this Order may be made to operate retrospectively to any date.

Labuan.

54. Until other provision shall be made for the government and administration of the Settlement of Labuan and its Dependencies (in this section referred to as “Labuan”) Labuan shall be a part of the Colony, and this Order shall have effect in all respects as if the Colony included Labuan:

Provided that the provisions of this Order shall not come into operation in Labuan until such day or days as the Governor may by Order appoint and the Governor may fix different days for different purposes and different provisions of this Order; and the Governor may by Order make such adaptations and modifications as the Governor may seem expedient, in the said provisions in their application to Labuan.

===== Page 344 =====
55.—(1) If any difficulty shall arise in bringing into operation any of the provisions of this Order or in giving effect to the purposes thereof, a Secretary of State may, by Order, make such provision as seems to him necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing the difficulty and may by such Order amend or add to any provision of this Order:

Provided that no Order under this section shall be made later than the first day of January, 1948.

(2) Any Order under this section may be amended, added to, or revoked by further Order, and may be given retrospective effect to a day not earlier than the appointed day.

56. Nothing in this Order shall affect the power of His Majesty in Council to make laws from time to time for the peace, order and good government of the Colony.

E. C. E. Leadbitter.

===== Page 345 =====
FIRST SCHEDULE

OATH OF ALLEGIANCE.
(Sections 6 and 36).

I, ..., do swear that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to His Majesty King George VI, His Heirs and Successors, according to Law. So help me God.

OATH FOR THE DUE EXECUTION OF THE OFFICE OF GOVERNOR.

I, ..., do swear that I will well and truly serve His Majesty King George VI, His Heirs and Successors, in the Office of Governor. So help me God.

THE SECOND SCHEDULE.
(Section 42 (3)).

Adaptation of Acts of Parliament.

Title of Act.

1. The Straits Settlements Offences Act, 1874.

37 & 38 Vict. c. 38.

1. The Act shall have effect as if the word "territories" were substituted for the word "Colony" wherever such last mentioned word occurs; and the territories of the Straits Settlements (in the Act called the colony of the Straits Settlements) shall be deemed to include (among other territories) the Colony of Singapore.

2. The Straits Settlements and Johore Territorial Waters (Agreement) Act, 1928.

18 & 19 Geo. V. c. 23.

2. The Act and the agreement scheduled thereto shall have effect as if the words "the Colony of Singapore" were substituted for the words "the Straits Settlements" and for the words "the Settlement of Singapore" wherever such words occur.

Printed by His Majesty's Stationery Office Press,
Drury Lane, W.C.2.

===== Page 346 =====
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE
The 27th day of March, 1946
Present
THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL.

WHEREAS by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Act, 1946 (hereinafter referred to as "the Act of 1946"), it is (among other things) provided—

(1) that on such day as His Majesty may by Order in Council appoint (in the Act of 1946, and in this Order referred to as "the appointed day") the Straits Settlements Act, 1866, shall be repealed and the Straits Settlements, that is to say the settlements and dependencies mentioned in the Schedule to the Act of 1946 (which include among other settlements and dependencies, the Settlement of Singapore and its dependencies the Cocos or Keeling Islands and Christmas Island) shall cease to be a single Colony;

(2) that on and after the appointed day the said settlements and dependencies shall be divided into such territories as His Majesty may by Order in Council direct and those territories shall be governed, either singly or in conjunction with such other territories (whether falling within the Schedule to the Act of 1946 or not) as may be specified in the Order and that such Order in Council may contain such consequential and other provisions as are contained in this Order; and

(3) that the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945, shall apply in relation to each of the territories into which the said settlements and dependencies are divided by Order under this Act as if it were a British settlement as so defined:

AND WHEREAS by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Order in Council, 1946, it is provided that the appointed day shall be the first day of April, 1946.

NOW, THEREFORE, His Majesty, by virtue and in exercise of the powers in that behalf by the Act of 1946 and by the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945, or otherwise in His Majesty vested, is pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council, to order, and it is hereby ordered, as follows:

PART I.

PRELIMINARY.

1.—(1) This Order may be cited as the Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946, and shall come into operation on the appointed day.

(2) Section 13 and Parts IV and V of this Order shall not come into operation on the appointed day, but shall come into operation on such day or days respectively within six months from the appointed day as may be fixed by the Governor by Proclamation in the Gazette, and the Governor may fix different days for different purposes and different provisions of that section and those Parts:

D.C. 790 3, 1, 20

===== Page 347 =====
Provided also that the said period of six months may be extended by the Governor, by Proclamation in the Gazette, for such further period as may be approved by a Secretary of State.

2.—(1) In this Order, unless the context otherwise requires—

“the Chief Justice” means the Chief Justice of the Colony;

“the Colony” means the Colony of Singapore as constituted by this Order;

“the existing laws” means the common law, the doctrines of equity, and all Acts of Parliament, Orders in Council, Ordinances of the Legislature of the Colony of the Straits Settlements, Proclamations issued by the Governor of the Straits Settlements, or by or under the authority of the Supreme Allied Commander South East Asia (other than the Proclamations establishing the British Military Administration and delegating powers thereunder), and all Rules, Regulations and By-laws made thereunder and all other enactments or instruments having the force of law in the territory comprising the Colony or any part thereof immediately prior to the appointed day, whether the same were administered by the British Military Administration or not;

“the Gazette” means the Official Gazette of the Colony;

“the Governor” means the Governor and Commander-in-Chief for the time being of the Colony and includes any officer for the time being administering the government thereof and, to the extent that a Deputy to the Governor is authorised to act, that Deputy;

“the Governor in Council” means the Governor acting after consultation with, but not necessarily in accordance with the advice of the Executive Council of the Colony; nor necessarily in such Council assembled; and, until section 13 of this Order is in operation, means the Governor;

“Malayan Union Citizen” means a citizen of the Malayan Union within the meaning of any Order in Council which may provide for Malayan Union citizenship.

“prescribed” means prescribed by any law made under this Order or by regulation made by the Governor under section 50;

“property” includes all property movable or immovable, and all estates, interests, easements and rights whether equitable or legal, in, to or out of property, and things in action and rights to revenue, taxes, duties and other dues; and “vested” in relation to property includes rights to property which are contingent and rights in remainder or reversion;

“the Public Seal” means the public seal of the Colony and includes the official stamp mentioned in section 9 of this Order;

“session” means the sittings of the Legislative Council commencing when the Council first meets after being constituted under this Order, or after its prorogation or dissolution at any time, and terminating when the Council is prorogued or is dissolved without having been prorogued;

“the Settlement of Singapore” means the Island of Singapore and its dependencies, Christmas Island, the Cocos or Keeling Islands, and all islands and places which, on the fifteenth day of February, 1942, were known and administered as part of such Settlement, and the territorial waters adjacent thereto;

===== Page 348 =====
“Sitting” means any sitting or sittings of the Legislative Council commencing when the Council first meets after being summoned at any time and terminating when the Council is adjourned sine die or at the conclusion of a session without adjournment; and “the Supreme Court” means the Supreme Court of the Colony.

(2) For the purposes of this Order, where reference is made to any public officer by the term designating his office, such reference means the officer for the time being discharging the functions of that office.

(3) For the purposes of this Order a person shall not be deemed to hold an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony by reason only that he is in receipt of a pension or other like allowance in respect of service under the Crown.

If it shall be declared by any law for the time being in force in the Colony that an office shall not be an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony for all or any of the purposes of this Order, this Order shall have effect accordingly as if such law were enacted herein.

(4) The Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply for the interpretation of this Order as it applies for the interpretation of an Act of Parliament.

3. The Island of Singapore and its dependencies, the Cocos or Keeling Islands and Christmas Island shall be governed and administered as a separate Colony and shall be called the Colony of Singapore.

PART II.

THE GOVERNOR AND EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.

4. There shall be a Governor and Commander-in-Chief (hereinafter called “the Governor”) in and over the Colony, and appointments to the said office shall be made by Commission under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet.

5. The Governor is hereby empowered and commanded to do all things that belong to his said office in accordance with this Order and such Commission as may be issued to him under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet and according to such Instructions as may from time to time be given to him under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet, or through a Secretary of State, and such Orders in Council and other laws as may from time to time be in force in the Colony.

6. Every person appointed to fill the office of Governor shall, before entering on any of the duties of his office, cause the Commission appointing him to be Governor to be read and published at the seat of Government, in the presence of the Chief Justice or, in his absence, of some other Judge of the Supreme Court, and, if section 13 of this Order is in force, of such members of the Executive Council of the Colony as can conveniently attend; and shall take before them the Oath of Allegiance and the Oath for the due execution of the office of Governor in the forms set out in the First Schedule to this Order, which Oaths the Chief Justice or other Judge as aforesaid shall administer.

7.—(1) Whenever the office of Governor is vacant or the Governor is absent from the Colony or the Governor is from any cause prevented from, or incapable of, performing the duties of his office, then such person as His Majesty may appoint under His Sign Manual and Signet or if there is no such person in the Colony so appointed and capable of discharging the duties of administration, the Senior Member of the

===== Page 349 =====
Executive Council then in the Colony and so capable, shall, during His Majesty’s pleasure, administer the Government of the Colony, first taking in manner in this Order prescribed the Oaths directed by this Order to be taken by the Governor. Thereupon such person or Member is hereby empowered, subject, if he is so appointed as aforesaid, to the terms of his appointment, to do, during His Majesty’s pleasure, all things that belong to the Office of Governor as provided in this Order:

Provided that the Governor or any person appointed as aforesaid shall not be regarded as absent from the Colony or prevented from or incapable of performing the duties of his office for the purposes of this Order, during his passage from one part of the Colony to another or during a visit to the Malayan Union or when there is a subsisting appointment of a Deputy under the next succeeding section of this Order.

(2) Any such person as aforesaid shall not continue to administer the Government after the Governor or some other person having a prior right to administer the same has notified that he is about to assume or resume the administration.

8.—(1) Whenever the Governor has occasion to be absent from the seat of Government but not from the Colony or to be absent from the Colony for a period which he has reason to believe will be of short duration or whenever by reason of illness which he has reason to believe will be of short duration he considers it desirable so to do, he may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint any person resident in the Colony to be his Deputy during such absence or illness, and in that capacity to exercise and perform for and on behalf of the Governor during such absence or illness all such functions of the Governor as shall be specified in such Instrument.

(2) By the appointment of a Deputy as aforesaid the power and authority of the Governor shall not be abridged, altered, or in any way affected otherwise than as His Majesty may at any time direct, and every such Deputy shall conform to and observe all such instructions as the Governor shall from time to time address to him for his guidance.

(3) Any appointment under this section may at any time be revoked by the Governor or by a Secretary of State and in case of absence as aforesaid, shall cease and determine upon the return of the Governor to the seat of Government or to the Colony, as the case may be.

Public Seal.

9. The Governor shall keep and use the Public Seal of the Colony for sealing all things that shall pass the said Seal. Until a Public Seal shall be provided for the Colony, an official stamp bearing the inscription “Colony of Singapore. Public Seal” may be used as the Public Seal.

Grants of land.

10. Subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force in the Colony and of any Instructions from time to time given to the Governor under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, the Governor, in His Majesty’s name and on His Majesty’s behalf, may make and execute, under the Public Seal, grants and dispositions of any lands within the Colony which may be lawfully granted or disposed of by His Majesty.

Suspension or dismissal of officers.

11. Subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force in the Colony and to any instructions from time to time given to him by His Majesty through a Secretary of State, the Governor, for cause shown to his satisfaction, may dismiss or suspend from the exercise of his office any person holding any public office within the Colony, or, may take such other disciplinary action as may seem to him desirable.

===== Page 350 =====
12. When any offence has been committed for which the offender may be tried within the Colony, the Governor may, as he shall see occasion, in His Majesty’s name and on His Majesty’s behalf, grant a pardon to any accomplice in such offence who shall give such information as shall lead to the conviction of the principal offender or any one of such offenders if more than one; and further may grant to any offender convicted of any such offence in any Court within the Colony, a pardon either free or subject to lawful conditions, or any respite either indefinite or for such period as the Governor may see fit, of the execution of any sentence passed on such offender and may remit the whole or any part of such sentence or of any penalties or forfeitures otherwise due to His Majesty.

13. There shall be an Executive Council for the Colony, and the said Council shall consist of such persons as His Majesty shall direct by Instructions under His Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, and all such persons shall hold their places in the Executive Council during His Majesty’s pleasure and, subject thereto, for such period and upon such conditions as may be specified in any such Instructions.

PART III.

COURTS.

14.—(1) There shall be in and for the Colony a Court of unlimited civil and criminal jurisdiction to be called the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court shall be a Court of Record and may consist of a High Court and a Court of Appeal.

(2) There shall be a Chief Justice appointed by His Majesty by Letters Patent, or by the Governor by Letters Patent under the Public Seal in accordance with such instructions as he may receive from His Majesty through a Secretary of State, and as many Judges of the Supreme Court, appointed similarly or in manner prescribed, as may from time to time be required. The Chief Justice and Judges of the Supreme Court shall hold office during His Majesty’s pleasure.

(3) The constitution, powers and procedure of the Supreme Court and provisions relating to appeals therefrom to His Majesty in Council and provisions relating to the qualifications, order of precedence, duties and powers of Judges, and appointment of temporary Judges, may, subject to the provisions of this Order, be prescribed by laws made under this Order.

15.—(1) Courts subordinate to the Supreme Court and Courts of special jurisdiction may be constituted by laws made under this Order.

(2) Provision may be made by such laws for the hearing and determining of appeals from any such Court by the Supreme Court or otherwise.

PART IV.

LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.

16.—(1) There shall be a Legislative Council in and for the Colony, constituted in accordance with the provisions of this Order.

(2) The Council shall consist of the Governor as President, four ex officio Members, and such Nominated Official Members, not exceeding seven, such Nominated Unofficial Members not exceeding two, and such

===== Page 351 =====
Elected Members not exceeding nine as His Majesty shall direct by Instructions under His Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State.

17. The ex officio Members shall be the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary, and the President of the Municipal Commissioners.

18. The Nominated Official Members shall be persons holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony and shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of His Majesty’s Instructions through a Secretary of State.

19. The Nominated Unofficial Members shall be British subjects or Malayan Union citizens of the age of twenty-one or upwards not holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony and shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of His Majesty’s Instructions through a Secretary of State.

20. The Elected Members shall be British subjects of the age of twenty-one years or upwards, not holding any office of emolument under the Crown, qualified as voters under any prescribed provision, who, the prescribed person is satisfied, are able to speak, and unless incapacitated by blindness or other physical cause, to read and write, the English language with a degree of proficiency sufficient to enable them to take an active part in the proceedings of the Council. Elected Members shall be elected in the manner prescribed.

21. No person shall be capable of being appointed or elected a Member of the Legislative Council or, having been appointed or elected, shall sit and vote therein, who at the time of appointment or election—

(1) is a person found or declared to be of unsound mind under any law in force in the Colony; or

(2) has, in any part of His Majesty’s dominions or in any territory under His Majesty’s protection, been sentenced to death or penal servitude or to imprisonment by whatever name called, for a term exceeding six months and has not either suffered the punishment to which he was sentenced or such other punishment as may by competent authority have been substituted therefor or received a free pardon; or

(3) is an undischarged bankrupt; or

(4) (a) in the case of a Nominated Unofficial Member is a party to, or a member of a firm or a director or manager of a company which is a party to, any subsisting contract with the Government of the Colony for or on account of the public service or is otherwise to his knowledge interested in any such contract and shall not have disclosed to the Governor the nature of such contract and his interest or the interest, or any such firm or company therein; or

(b) in the case of an Elected Member, is a party to, or a member of a firm, or a director or manager of a company which is a party to any subsisting contract with the Government of the Colony for or on account of the public service or is otherwise to his knowledge interested in any such contract and has not published within one month before the day of election, in the Gazette or in some newspaper circulating in the Colony, a notice setting out the nature of such contract and his interest or the interest of any such firm or company therein; or

(5) in the case of an Elected Member is disqualified for membership of the Council under any law for the time being in force in the Colony relating to offences connected with the election of Members.

===== Page 352 =====
22.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, every Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council shall hold his seat in the Legislative Council during His Majesty’s pleasure.

(2) Every Member shall in any case cease to be a Member at the next dissolution of the Legislative Council after his appointment or election, or previously if his seat shall become vacant under the provisions of this Order.

(3) The seat of a Member of the Legislative Council (other than an ex officio Member) shall become vacant—

(a) upon his death; or

(b) if he shall, without the leave of the Governor, be absent from two consecutive meetings of the Council; or

(c) if he shall cease to be a British subject; or shall take any oath, or make any declaration or acknowledgment of allegiance, obedience or adherence to any foreign power or State; or shall do, concur in or adopt any act done with the intention that he shall become a subject or citizen of any foreign Power or State; or

(d) if he shall be declared a bankrupt under any law in force in any part of His Majesty’s dominions or in any territory under His Majesty’s protection; or

(e) if in any part of His Majesty’s dominions or in any territory under His Majesty’s protection, he shall be sentenced to death, or imprisonment, by whatever name called, for a term exceeding six months; or

(f) if he shall be found or declared insane under any law in force in the Colony; or

(g) if he shall become disqualified for membership of the Council under any law or regulation for the time being in force in the Colony relating to offences connected with the election of Members; or

(h) if, being a Nominated Official Member, a Nominated Unofficial Member or Elected Member, he shall, by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor resign his seat in the Legislative Council; or

(i) if, being a Nominated Official Member, he shall cease to hold office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony; or

(j) if, being an Elected Member, he shall be appointed to or act in any such office or being a Nominated Unofficial Member he shall be appointed permanently to any such office; or

(k) if he shall otherwise cease to possess qualification for election or appointment, as the case may be; or

(l) if, being a Nominated Unofficial Member or Elected Member, he shall, without the approval of the Governor, become a party to, or if any firm in which he is a partner, or any company of which he is a director or manager, shall become a party to, or if he shall be otherwise interested in, any contract with the Government of the Colony for or on account of the Public service and shall not before the making of the contract have disclosed to the Governor the nature of such contract and his interest, or the interest of any such firm or company therein.

===== Page 353 =====
(4) If a Nominated Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council shall be appointed temporarily to any office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony, or shall be appointed to act in any such office, he shall not sit or vote in the Legislative Council as an Unofficial Member so long as he continues to hold or to act in that office.

(5) Any person vacating a seat as a Member of the Legislative Council may, if qualified, be again appointed or elected as a Member from time to time.

(6) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council, and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared, in manner aforesaid, to be again capable of discharging his said functions.

(7) The Governor may by Instrument under the Public Seal suspend any Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the Legislative Council. Every such suspension shall forthwith be reported by the Governor to His Majesty through a Secretary of State, and shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal or by His Majesty through a Secretary of State, or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the Legislative Council.

(8) All questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain an Elected Member shall be determined in such manner as may be prescribed.

(9) All questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain a Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member shall be referred to and decided by the Governor in Council, whose decision shall be final and shall not be called in question in any Court in the Colony.

23.—(1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Legislative Council, as ex officio Members, or Nominated Official Members or Nominated Unofficial Members, by reason of the fact that—

(a) an ex officio Member is administering the Government of the Colony; or

(b) one person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the four officers specified in section 17 of this Order; or

(c) no person is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or

(d) a Nominated Official Member is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or

(e) the seat of a Nominated Official Member or of a Nominated Unofficial Member is vacant for any cause other than a dissolution of the Council; or

(f) a Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in this Order, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or

(g) a Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or

===== Page 354 =====
(h) a Member is absent from the Colony; or

(i) a Nominated Unofficial Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of his having been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony or to act in any such office;

the Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint a person to be a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) If the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Nominated Official Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as a Nominated Official Member; and if the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Nominated Unofficial Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as a Nominated Unofficial Member.

(3) Every person appointed to be a Temporary Member under this section shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Nominated Official Members, a Nominated Official Member;

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Nominated Unofficial Members, a Nominated Unofficial Member;

and, subject to the provisions of this section, the provisions of section 22 of this Order shall apply accordingly:

Provided that, in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed shall not be regarded as a Nominated Official Member in computing the number of such Members for the purposes of sub-section (2) of section 16 of this Order.

(4) The Governor shall forthwith report every such temporary appointment to His Majesty through a Secretary of State. Any such appointment may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be disallowed by His Majesty through a Secretary of State or revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment under this section shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of disallowance by His Majesty or of revocation by the Governor or on supersession of the appointment by the definitive appointment of a person to fill the vacancy or when the vacancy shall otherwise cease to exist.

24. The Governor may summon to any meeting of the Legislative Council any person holding public office under the Crown in the Colony, notwithstanding that such person may not be a Member of the Council, when, in the opinion of the Governor, the business before the Council renders the presence of such person desirable. Any person so summoned shall be entitled to take part in the proceedings of the Council relating to the business in respect of which he is summoned as if he were a Member of the Council, except that he shall not have the right to vote in the Council.

25. The Governor, if present, shall preside at meetings of the Council, and, in his absence, such Member as the Governor may appoint or, in the absence of such Member, or if no Member be so appointed, the senior Member of Council actually present shall preside.

===== Page 355 =====
Quorum.

26. No business except that of adjournment shall be transacted by the Council if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than one quarter of the Members besides the Governor or other Member presiding.

Precedence of Members.

27. — (1) After the Governor the Members of the Council shall take precedence as His Majesty may specially assign and, if precedence be not so assigned, as follows:

First, the ex officio Members in the order in which they are mentioned in section 17 of this Order;

Secondly, the Nominated Official Members appointed under section 18 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments as Nominated Official Members, or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Thirdly, Nominated Official Members temporarily appointed under section 23 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Fourthly, the Nominated Unofficial Members and Elected Members according to the lengths of time during which they have been continuously Members of the Council: Members elected or appointed at the same time taking precedence among themselves as the Governor may assign.

(a) For the purposes of the preceding sub-section—

(a) when the Council is dissolved, Nominated Official Members and Nominated Unofficial Members appointed to fill vacancies caused thereby shall be deemed to have been appointed, and Members elected at the ensuing elections shall be deemed to have been elected by virtue of those elections, at the date on which the report of the first successful candidate for election is made to the Governor; and

(b) paragraph (a) of this sub-section shall apply to the Members elected or appointed to the Legislative Council as first constituted under this Order as if such elections or appointments were consequent upon a dissolution of the Council; and

(c) in ascertaining the period during which a person has continuously been an Elected Member or a Nominated Unofficial Member of the Council, no account shall be taken of any interval between the vacation by that person of his seat in the Council in consequence of a dissolution of the Council and the date of his re-election or re-appointment to fill a vacancy in the Council caused by that dissolution.

Part V

LEGISLATION AND PROCEDURE IN LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL

28. Subject to the provisions of this Order, it shall be lawful for the Governor, with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council, to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Colony.

===== Page 356 =====
29. Save as otherwise provided in this Order, all questions proposed for decision in the Council shall be determined by a majority of the votes of the Members present and voting. The Governor shall not have an original vote, but, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, he shall have a casting vote. In the absence of the Governor, the Member presiding shall have an original vote and also, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, a casting vote.

30.—(1) If the Governor shall consider that it is expedient in the interests of public order, public faith or good government that any Bill introduced or any motion proposed in the Council shall have effect, then if the Council fail to pass such a Bill or motion within such time and in such form as the Governor may think reasonable and expedient, the Governor, at any time in his discretion, may, notwithstanding any provisions of this Order or of any Standing Rules or Orders of the Council, declare that such Bill or motion shall have effect as if it had been passed by the Council, either in the form in which it was so introduced or proposed or with such amendments as the Governor shall think fit which have been moved or proposed in the Council or in any Committee thereof; and thereupon the said Bill or motion shall have effect as if it had been so passed, and, in the case of any such Bill, the provisions of this Order, relating to assent to Bills and disallowance of laws shall apply accordingly.

(2) In this section the expression "public order, public faith or good government" shall without prejudice to their generality, include the following:

(a) the responsibility of the Colony as a component part of the British Empire, including foreign relations and relations with other parts of the British Empire;

(b) all questions relating to defence, including provision, construction, maintenance and use of defence works, areas and communications;

(c) subjects upon which, in the opinion of the Governor or of a Secretary of State, it is necessary to secure uniformity in Legislation between the Colony and the Malayan Union; and

(d) all matters pertaining to the creation or abolition of any public office and to the appointment, salary or other conditions of service of any public officer or officers.

(3) The Governor shall forthwith report to a Secretary of State every case in which he shall make any such declaration as is mentioned in sub-section (1) of this section and the reason therefor.

(4) If any Member of the Legislative Council objects to any declaration made under this section, he may, within seven days of the making thereof, submit to the Governor a statement in writing of his reasons for so objecting and a copy of such statement shall, if furnished by such Member, be forwarded by the Governor as soon as practicable to a Secretary of State.

(5) Any such declaration, other than a declaration relating to a Bill, may be revoked by a Secretary of State, and the Governor shall notify such revocation in the Gazette; and from the date of such notification any resolution which shall have had effect by virtue of the declaration revoked shall cease to have effect and the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 38 of the Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply to such revocation as they apply to the repeal of an Act of Parliament.

===== Page 357 =====
31.—(1) No Bill shall become a law until either the Governor shall assent thereto in His Majesty's name and on His Majesty's behalf, and shall sign the same in token of assent, or His Majesty shall give his assent thereto through a Secretary of State.

(2) When a Bill is presented to the Governor for his assent, he shall, according to his discretion, but subject to the provisions of this Order and of any instructions addressed to him under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, declare that he assents or refuses to assent thereto, or that he reserves the Bill for the signification of His Majesty's pleasure.

(3) A law assented to by the Governor shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the date on which such assent shall be given, or, if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment (including any enactment in force at the commencement of this Order) that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

(4) A Bill reserved for the signification of His Majesty's pleasure shall become a law so soon as His Majesty shall have given His assent thereto, through a Secretary of State, and the Governor shall have signified such assent by Proclamation in the Gazette. Every such law shall come into operation on the date of such Proclamation or, if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment (including any enactment in force at the commencement of this Order) that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

32.—(1) Any law to which the Governor shall have given his assent may be disallowed by His Majesty through a Secretary of State.

(2) Whenever any law has been disallowed by His Majesty, the Governor shall cause notice of such disallowance to be published in the Gazette.

(3) Without prejudice to anything lawfully done thereunder, every law so disallowed shall cease to have effect as soon as notice of such disallowance shall be published as aforesaid. Thereafter any enactment repealed or amended by such law shall have effect as if such law had not been made, but save as aforesaid, the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 38 of the Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply to such disallowance as they apply to the repeal of an Act of Parliament.

33. Subject to the provisions of this Order, the Governor and the Council shall, in the transaction of business and the passing of laws, conform as nearly as may be to the directions contained in any Instructions under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet which may from time to time be addressed to the Governor in that behalf.

34. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of such Instructions as aforesaid, the Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its own proceedings and the conduct of business and for the passing, intitulating and numbering of Bills, and for the presentation of the same to the Governor for his assent, but no such Rules or Orders shall have effect unless and until they shall have been approved by the Governor.

35. The official language of the Council shall be English.

===== Page 358 =====
36. Except for the purpose of enabling this section to be complied with, no Member shall sit or vote in the Council until he shall have taken and subscribed before the Governor, or some person authorised by the Governor in that behalf, the Oath of Allegiance in the form set out in the First Schedule to this Order:

Provided that every person authorised by law to make an affirmation instead of taking an oath in legal proceedings may make such affirmation in like terms instead of the said oath.

37. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council, any Member may introduce any Bill or propose any motion for debate in, or may present any petition to, the Council, and the same shall be debated and disposed of according to the Standing Rules and Orders:

Provided that, except with the recommendation or consent of the Governor signified thereto, the Council shall not proceed upon any Bill, amendment, motion or petition, which, in the opinion of the Governor or of the presiding Member would—

(a) dispose of, or charge any public revenue or public funds of the Colony, or revoke or alter any disposition thereof or charge thereon, or impose, alter, or repeal any rate, tax or duty; or

(b) suspend the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council or any of them.

38.—(1) The sessions of the Legislative Council shall be held at such times and places as the Governor shall from time to time by Proclamation appoint.

(2) There shall be a session of the Council once at least in every year, so that a period of twelve months shall not intervene between the last sitting in one session and the first sitting in the next session.

39.—(1) The Governor may, at any time, by Proclamation, prorogue or dissolve the Legislative Council.

(2) On dissolution, all Members shall vacate their seats and the Council shall be reconstituted by election and appointment in accordance with the provisions of this Order at such time within three months of the dissolution, as the Governor shall by Proclamation appoint.

PART VI

TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

40.—(1) Until such time as section 13 and Parts IV and V of this Order shall come into operation, it shall be lawful for the Governor to make laws for the peace order and good government of the Colony.

(2) In making such laws the Governor shall consult the Advisory Council.

(3) Section 32 of the Order shall apply to any law made under this section as it applies to a law assented to by the Governor.

41.—(1) There shall be an Advisory Council which shall consist of the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary and such other persons as the Governor may by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint; and such persons shall hold their places in the said Council during the Governor's pleasure.

===== Page 359 =====
(2) The Governor alone shall be entitled to submit questions to the Advisory Council for their advice. The Governor may act in opposition to the advice given to him by the Members of the Advisory Council if he shall in any case deem it right so to do. In such case, it shall be competent to any Member of the Advisory Council to require that there be recorded on the Minutes any advice or opinion he may give upon the question and the grounds therefor.

(3) The Governor may regulate the procedure and practice of the Advisory Council in such manner as he shall see fit.

(4) The Governor may, by Proclamation in the Gazette, declare that this section shall cease to have effect, and thereupon this section shall cease to have effect accordingly on the date specified in the Proclamation.

42.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, the existing laws shall, except in so far as the same shall, in their application to the Colony or any part thereof be repealed, amended or otherwise affected by or under any Act of Parliament, Order of His Majesty in Council or any law made under the provisions of this Order, continue to have effect in the Colony or in that part thereof to which such law applied prior to the appointed day, but shall be construed subject to such modifications as may be necessary to bring them into conformity with the provisions of this Order.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section, the existing laws shall, except as aforesaid, in their application to the Colony, be construed, where the context admits, subject to the following modifications:

(a) references to the Colony of the Straits Settlements shall be construed as referring (but not exclusively) to the Colony;

(b) references to the Settlement of Singapore shall be construed as references to the Colony;

(c) references to the Governor or Governor in Council, or to any officer of the Colony of the Straits Settlements, or to any officer of, or authority or body constituted in or for, the Straits Settlements, shall be construed as references to the Governor or Governor in Council, or to the corresponding officer of, or authority or body constituted in or for the Colony, as the case may be; and

(d) references to the Chief Justice or to any Court, Judge or Magistrate of the Straits Settlements shall be construed as references to the Chief Justice or to the corresponding Court, Judge or Magistrate of the Colony.

(3) The adaptations and modifications specified in the second column of the Second Schedule to this Order shall be made in the enactments mentioned in the first column of that Schedule.

43. Subject to the express provisions of this Order, nothing in this Order shall affect the validity or future operation of any lawful act done by any person or authority before the appointed day in any territory comprised in the Colony.

===== Page 360 =====
44. All proceedings other than proceedings in the Prize Court commenced before the 15th day of February, 1942, in any Court of Justice in or having jurisdiction in the territory comprised in the Colony may be carried on in like manner as nearly as may be, as if this Order and the Act of 1946 had not been made or passed, but in the corresponding Court of the Colony, and any such proceeding may be amended in such manner as may appear necessary or proper in order to bring it into conformity with the provisions of the Act of 1946 and of this Order.

45. Courts constituted for the Colony shall have within their respective powers jurisdiction with respect to all offences (including offences against Proclamations issued by, or under the Authority of the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia) and causes of action (other than matters of Prize) committed or arising before the appointed day for which the accused might have been tried, or proceedings might have been had, within the Settlement of Singapore under the law (including the provisions of any such Proclamation) in force in the Straits Settlements prior to the appointed day, and such jurisdiction shall be exercised in conformity with the law applicable in the Settlement of Singapore at the date when the offence was committed or the cause of action arose and in accordance, as nearly as may be, with the procedure in force in Courts constituted under this Order.

46. Military Courts established in the Settlement of Singapore by the British Military Administration by virtue of any Proclamation made by, or under the authority of, the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia, in which proceedings have been commenced and are pending at the date hereof shall be deemed to be lawfully constituted Courts with jurisdiction to continue and conclude such proceedings and to issue warrants for the custody of prisoners and the carrying out of sentences in accordance with such Proclamation, after the appointed day. The powers and functions of a confirming authority or reviewing authority under any such Proclamation may be exercised by such person or persons as the Governor shall designate in that behalf.

47.—(i) In this section—

(i) “Straits Settlements property” means property which, immediately before the appointed day, was vested in, or was in the possession, or under the control, or held on account, of His Majesty, or the Government of the Straits Settlements, or any officer of such Government, for any of the purposes of that Government.

(ii) Any reference to property vested in any person or authority shall be construed as including a reference to any property in the possession, or under the control, or held on account, of that person or authority; and any direction that property shall be vested in any person or authority shall likewise be construed as including a direction, as the case may require, that the possession or control of property shall be transferred to, or that property shall be held on account of, that person or authority.

===== Page 361 =====
(2) Save as in this section otherwise provided, all Straits Settlements property which was immediately before the appointed day, either—

(a) immovable property situate in the Settlement of Singapore; or

(b) vested solely for a purpose of the Government of the Straits Settlements which will, after the appointed day, be a purpose of the Government of the Colony;

shall vest in His Majesty or in the appropriate officer of the Government of the Colony, or in the person or body prescribed under sub-section (6) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Colony.

(3) Save as in this section otherwise provided, any Straits Settlements property which was, immediately before the appointed day, vested for any purpose of the Straits Settlements Government common to the Settlement of Singapore and to any other territory or territories formerly included in the Straits Settlements, but not included in the Colony, shall vest in His Majesty or in the person or body prescribed under sub-section (6) of this section but shall be apportioned between the Colony and any such territory by agreement between the Governor and the Governor of such territory with the approval of a Secretary of State; or, in default of such agreement, shall be apportioned by order of a Secretary of State. Any such agreement or order may contain provision for the assessment of values, for the perfecting of any transfer of property mentioned therein, and for financial and other adjustments, and may contain such other provisions as may be considered necessary or expedient for carrying the apportionment into effect.

(4) Any Straits Settlements property apportioned to the Colony under sub-section (3) of this section shall be vested in His Majesty, or the appropriate officer of the Government of the Colony, or the persons or body prescribed under sub-section (6) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Colony; and the Governor may make such vesting or other orders as may be necessary for carrying the provisions of this section into effect, and for such purpose may appoint and empower persons to transfer property.

(5) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, any property which, immediately before the appointed day was vested in the Ruler of any of the Malay States, for any of the following purposes, shall continue to be vested in the Sultan of the State for the same purposes, that is to say:

(a) any property held by, or in trust for, or for the benefit of a Ruler for his official or personal use; or

(b) any building or land used for purposes of the Muhammadan religion, or property pertaining to the endowment of Muhammadan religious institutions:

Nothing in this section shall affect the use or enjoyment of any property vested in a Ruler or in His Majesty for any of the said purposes.

(6) The Governor may make regulations for determining, in cases of doubt, the person or body in whom property affected by this section shall be vested, and generally for giving effect to this section, and may by order, exclude any particular property from the operation of this section, or declare, for the removal of doubt, whether, and in what manner, any particular property is affected thereby.

===== Page 362 =====
48. — (1) All liabilities incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Straits Settlements for any of the purposes of such Government (other than liabilities incurred solely for a purpose which will, after the appointed day, be a purpose of the Government of any territory formerly included in the Straits Settlements, but not included in the Colony) shall be deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Colony.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section:

(a) Such liabilities shall include claims in respect of Loans and War Savings Certificates issued, and Post Office Savings Bank deposits received, by the Government of the Straits Settlements.

(b) Claims to pensions, gratuities and other like allowances in respect of service under the Government of the Straits Settlements before the appointed day, whether arising before or after that day, shall be liabilities deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Colony.

(3) It shall be lawful for the Governor, with the approval of a Secretary of State, to make, vary, rescind and carry into effect, arrangements with the Governor of any territory formerly included in the Straits Settlements, but not included in the Colony, for the payment by the Government of that territory to the Government of the Colony, of proportionate contributions towards the sums necessary to defray the liabilities of the Government of the Straits Settlements transferred by this Order to the Government of the Colony including liabilities for the service and repayment of Loans and War Savings Certificates issued, Post Office Savings Bank deposits received, and pensions, allowances and gratuities payable, by the Government of the Straits Settlements.

(4) Claims in respect of liabilities deemed, by virtue of this section, to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Colony which, if the Act of 1946 had not been passed and this Order had not been made, might have been enforced against His Majesty in His Government of the Straits Settlements, or against any officer of such Government in his official capacity or against any department of such Government, in connection with the administration of the Straits Settlements, may be enforced, in such manner as may be prescribed by laws for the time being in force or by regulations made by the Governor under sub-section (5) of this section, against His Majesty in His Government of the Colony or against the appropriate officer of that Government, as the case may be.

(5) The Governor, with the approval of a Secretary of State, may make regulations for determining in any case of doubt the person or body by or against whom claims may be enforced under this section and generally for giving effect thereto.

49. The provisions of sections 42 to 48 inclusive of this Order may be amended by laws made under Part V or under section 40 of this Order.

PART VII.

MISCELLANEOUS.

50. — (1) Provision may be made by laws made under this Order, and, until such provision has been made, by regulations made by the Governor, regulating any matter which by this Order or by Instructions under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet is to be prescribed.

Provisions necessary to give effect to this Order.

===== Page 363 =====
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section, provision may be made regulating the election to the Legislative Council of Elected Members, including provision for regulating any of the following matters, that is to say:

(a) the persons, associations or bodies by whom Members are to be elected;
(b) the holding of elections;
(c) the qualifications of voters;
(d) the registration of voters;
(e) the ascertainment of the qualifications of voters and candidates;
(f) offences in relation to elections including the trial and punishment thereof;
(g) the disposal of election petitions and the determination of questions otherwise arising regarding membership of the Council.

(3) Such regulations shall be published in the Gazette; and thereafter every such regulation shall take effect on the day of publication or on such other date as may be therein specified and shall have the force of law.

Unqualified persons sitting or voting. Penalty.

51.—(1) Any person who—

(a) having been elected or appointed a Member of the Legislative Council, but not having been, at the time of such election or appointment, qualified to be so elected or appointed, shall sit or vote in the Legislative Council; or

(b) shall sit or vote in the Legislative Council after his seat thereon has become vacant or he has become disqualified from sitting or voting therein;

knowing, or having reasonable grounds for knowing, that he was so disqualified, or that his seat has become vacant, as the case may be, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding two hundred dollars for every day upon which he so sits or votes.

(2) The said penalty shall be recoverable by action in the Supreme Court at the suit of the Attorney General.

Vacancies not to disqualify.

52. No Council constituted by this Order shall be disqualified from the transaction of business by reason of any vacancy among the Members, or by reason of the sitting or voting therein of any unqualified or disqualified person.

Retrospective effect of laws.

53. For the avoidance of doubts it is hereby declared that any law or regulation made under this Order may be made to operate retrospectively to any date.

Labuan.

54. Until other provision shall be made for the government and administration of the Settlement of Labuan and its Dependencies (in this section referred to as “Labuan”) Labuan shall be a part of the Colony, and this Order shall have effect in all respects as if the Colony included Labuan:

Provided that the provisions of this Order shall not come into operation in Labuan until such day or days as the Governor may by Order appoint and the Governor may fix different days for different purposes and different provisions of this Order; and the Governor may by Order make such adaptations and modifications as the Governor may seem expedient, in the said provisions in their application to Labuan.

===== Page 364 =====
55.—(1) If any difficulty shall arise in bringing into operation any of the provisions of this Order or in giving effect to the purposes thereof, a Secretary of State may, by Order, make such provision as seems to him necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing the difficulty and may by such Order amend or add to any provision of this Order:

Provided that no Order under this section shall be made later than the first day of January, 1948.

(2) Any Order under this section may be amended, added to, or revoked by further Order, and may be given retrospective effect to a day not earlier than the appointed day.

56. Nothing in this Order shall affect the power of His Majesty in Council to make laws from time to time for the peace, order and good government of the Colony.

E. C. E. Leadbitter.

===== Page 365 =====
FIRST SCHEDULE

OATH OF ALLEGIANCE.
(Sections 6 and 36).

I, ..., do swear that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to His Majesty King George VI, His Heirs and Successors, according to Law. So help me God.

OATH FOR THE DUE EXECUTION OF THE OFFICE OF GOVERNOR.

I, ..., do swear that I will well and truly serve His Majesty King George VI, His Heirs and Successors, in the Office of Governor. So help me God.

THE SECOND SCHEDULE.
(Section 42 (3)).

Adaptation of Acts of Parliament.

Title of Act.

1. The Straits Settlements Offences Act, 1874.

37 & 38 Vict. c. 38.

1. The Act shall have effect as if the word "territories" were substituted for the word "Colony" wherever such last mentioned word occurs; and the territories of the Straits Settlements (in the Act called the colony of the Straits Settlements) shall be deemed to include (among other territories) the Colony of Singapore.

2. The Straits Settlements and Johore Territorial Waters (Agreement) Act, 1928.

18 & 19 Geo. V. c. 23.

2. The Act and the agreement scheduled thereto shall have effect as if the words "the Colony of Singapore" were substituted for the words "the Straits Settlements" and for the words "the Settlement of Singapore" wherever such words occur.

Printed by His Majesty’s Stationery Office Press,
Drury Lane, W.C.2.

===== Page 366 =====
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE
The 27th day of March, 1946
Present

THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL

WHEREAS by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Act, 1946, (hereinafter referred to as "the Act of 1946") it is, among other things, enacted that on such day as His Majesty may by Order in Council appoint (in the Act of 1946 and in this Order referred to as "the appointed day") the Straits Settlements Act, 1866, shall be repealed and the Straits Settlements, that is to say the settlements and dependencies mentioned in the Schedule to the Act of 1946, shall cease to be a single colony and that on and after the appointed day the said settlements and dependencies shall be divided into such territories as His Majesty may by Order in Council direct and those territories shall be governed either singly or in conjunction with such other territories (whether falling within the Schedule to the Act of 1946 or not) as may be specified in such Order:

AND WHEREAS it is expedient to appoint, by this Order, the appointed day for the purposes of the Act of 1946:

NOW, THEREFORE, His Majesty, in exercise of the powers conferred on Him by the Act of 1946 and of all other powers enabling Him in that behalf, is pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council, to order, and it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. This Order may be cited as the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Order in Council, 1946.

2. The appointed day shall be the first day of April, 1946.

Appointed day.

E. C. E. Leadbitter.

Printed by His Majesty's Stationery Office Press,
Drury Lane, W.C.2.

===== Page 367 =====
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE
The 27th day of March, 1946

Present

THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL

WHEREAS by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Act, 1946, (hereinafter referred to as "the Act of 1946") it is, among other things, enacted that on such day as His Majesty may by Order in Council appoint (in the Act of 1946 and in this Order referred to as "the appointed day") the Straits Settlements Act, 1866, shall be repealed and the Straits Settlements, that is to say the settlements and dependencies mentioned in the Schedule to the Act of 1946, shall cease to be a single colony and that on and after the appointed day the said settlements and dependencies shall be divided into such territories as His Majesty may by Order in Council direct and those territories shall be governed either singly or in conjunction with such other territories (whether falling within the Schedule to the Act of 1946 or not) as may be specified in such Order:

AND WHEREAS it is expedient to appoint, by this Order, the appointed day for the purposes of the Act of 1946:

NOW, THEREFORE, His Majesty, in exercise of the powers conferred on Him by the Act of 1946 and of all other powers enabling Him in that behalf, is pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council, to order, and it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. This Order may be cited as the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Order in Council, 1946.

2. The appointed day shall be the first day of April, 1946.

Appointed day.

E. C. E. Leadbitter.

Printed by His Majesty's Stationery Office Press,
Drury Lane, W.C.2.

===== Page 368 =====
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE
The 27th day of March, 1946
Present

THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL

WHEREAS by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Act, 1946, (hereinafter referred to as "the Act of 1946") it is, among other things, enacted that on such day as His Majesty may by Order in Council appoint (in the Act of 1946 and in this Order referred to as "the appointed day") the Straits Settlements Act, 1866, shall be repealed and the Straits Settlements, that is to say the settlements and dependencies mentioned in the Schedule to the Act of 1946, shall cease to be a single colony and that on and after the appointed day the said settlements and dependencies shall be divided into such territories as His Majesty may by Order in Council direct and those territories shall be governed either singly or in conjunction with such other territories (whether falling within the Schedule to the Act of 1946 or not) as may be specified in such Order:

AND WHEREAS it is expedient to appoint, by this Order, the appointed day for the purposes of the Act of 1946:

NOW, THEREFORE, His Majesty, in exercise of the powers conferred on Him by the Act of 1946 and of all other powers enabling Him in that behalf, is pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council, to order, and it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. This Order may be cited as the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Order in Council, 1946.

2. The appointed day shall be the first day of April, 1946.

Appointed day.

E. C. E. Leadbitter.

Printed by His Majesty's Stationery Office Press,
Drury Lane, W.C.2.

===== Page 369 =====
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE
The 27th day of March, 1946
Present

THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL

WHEREAS by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Act, 1946, (hereinafter referred to as "the Act of 1946") it is, among other things, enacted that on such day as His Majesty may by Order in Council appoint (in the Act of 1946 and in this Order referred to as "the appointed day") the Straits Settlements Act, 1866, shall be repealed and the Straits Settlements, that is to say the settlements and dependencies mentioned in the Schedule to the Act of 1946, shall cease to be a single colony and that on and after the appointed day the said settlements and dependencies shall be divided into such territories as His Majesty may by Order in Council direct and those territories shall be governed either singly or in conjunction with such other territories (whether falling within the Schedule to the Act of 1946 or not) as may be specified in such Order:

AND WHEREAS it is expedient to appoint, by this Order, the appointed day for the purposes of the Act of 1946:

NOW, THEREFORE, His Majesty, in exercise of the powers conferred on Him by the Act of 1946 and of all other powers enabling Him in that behalf, is pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council, to order, and it is hereby ordered as follows:

1. This Order may be cited as the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Order in Council, 1946.

2. The appointed day shall be the first day of April, 1946.

Appointed day.

Printed by His Majesty's Stationery Office Press,
Drury Lane, W.C.2.

===== Page 370 =====
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE
The 27th day of March, 1946
Present
THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL.

WHEREAS by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Act, 1946 (hereinafter referred to as "the Act of 1946"), it is (among other things) provided—

(1) that on such day as His Majesty may by Order in Council appoint (in the Act of 1946, and in this Order referred to as "the appointed day") the Straits Settlements Act, 1866, shall be repealed and the Straits Settlements, that is to say the settlements and dependencies mentioned in the Schedule to the Act of 1946 (which include among other settlements and dependencies, the Settlement of Singapore and its dependencies the Cocos or Keeling Islands and Christmas Island) shall cease to be a single Colony;

(2) that on and after the appointed day the said settlements and dependencies shall be divided into such territories as His Majesty may by Order in Council direct and those territories shall be governed, either singly or in conjunction with such other territories (whether falling within the Schedule to the Act of 1946 or not) as may be specified in the Order and that such Order in Council may contain such consequential and other provisions as are contained in this Order; and

(3) that the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945, shall apply in relation to each of the territories into which the said settlements and dependencies are divided by Order under this Act as if it were a British settlement as so defined:

AND WHEREAS by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Order in Council, 1946, it is provided that the appointed day shall be the first day of April, 1946.

NOW, THEREFORE, His Majesty, by virtue and in exercise of the powers in that behalf by the Act of 1946 and by the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945, or otherwise in His Majesty vested, is pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council, to order, and it is hereby ordered, as follows:

PART I.

PRELIMINARY.

1.—(1) This Order may be cited as the Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946, and shall come into operation on the appointed day.

(2) Section 13 and Parts IV and V of this Order shall not come into operation on the appointed day, but shall come into operation on such day or days respectively within six months from the appointed day as may be fixed by the Governor by Proclamation in the Gazette, and the Governor may fix different days for different purposes and different provisions of that section and those Parts:

D.C. 790 3, 1, 20

===== Page 371 =====
Provided also that the said period of six months may be extended by the Governor, by Proclamation in the Gazette, for such further period as may be approved by a Secretary of State.

2. (1) In this Order, unless the context otherwise requires—

"the Chief Justice" means the Chief Justice of the Colony;

"the Colony" means the Colony of Singapore as constituted by this Order;

"the existing laws" means the common law, the doctrines of equity and all Acts of Parliament, Orders in Council, Ordinances of the Legislature of the Colony of the Straits Settlements, Proclamations issued by the Governor of the Straits Settlements, or by or under the authority of the Supreme Allied Commander South East Asia (other than the Proclamations establishing the British Military Administration and delegating powers thereunder), and all Rules, Regulations and By-laws made thereunder and all other enactments or instruments having the force of law in the territory comprising the Colony or in any part thereof immediately prior to the appointed day, whether the same were administered by the British Military Administration or not;

"the Gazette" means the Official Gazette of the Colony;

"the Governor" means the Governor and Commander-in-Chief for the time being of the Colony and includes any officer for the time being administering the government thereof and, to the extent that a Deputy to the Governor is authorised to act, that Deputy;

"the Governor in Council" means the Governor acting after consultation with, but not necessarily in accordance with the advice of, the Executive Council of the Colony; nor necessarily in such Council assembled; and, until section 13 of this Order is in operation, means the Governor;

"Malayan Union Citizen" means a citizen of the Malayan Union within the meaning of any Order in Council which may provide for Malayan Union citizenship.

"prescribed" means prescribed by any law made under this Order or by regulation made by the Governor under section 50;

"property" includes all property movable or immovable, and all estates, interests, easements and rights whether equitable or legal, in, to or out of property, and things in action and rights to revenue, taxes, duties and other dues; and "vested" in relation to property includes rights to property which are contingent and rights in remainder or reversion;

"the Public Seal" means the public seal of the Colony and includes the official stamp mentioned in section 9 of this Order;

"session" means the sittings of the Legislative Council commencing when the Council first meets after being constituted under this Order, or after its prorogation or dissolution at any time, and terminating when the Council is prorogued or is dissolved without having been prorogued;

"the Settlement of Singapore" means the Island of Singapore and its dependencies, Christmas Island, the Cocos or Keeling Islands, and all islands and places which, on the fifteenth day of February, 1942, were known and administered as part of such Settlement, and the territorial waters adjacent thereto;

===== Page 372 =====
“Sitting” means any sitting or sittings of the Legislative Council commencing when the Council first meets after being summoned at any time and terminating when the Council is adjourned sine die or at the conclusion of a session without adjournment; and “the Supreme Court” means the Supreme Court of the Colony.

(2) For the purposes of this Order, where reference is made to any public officer by the term designating his office, such reference means the officer for the time being discharging the functions of that office.

(3) For the purposes of this Order a person shall not be deemed to hold an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony by reason only that he is in receipt of a pension or other like allowance in respect of service under the Crown.

If it shall be declared by any law for the time being in force in the Colony that an office shall not be an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony for all or any of the purposes of this Order, this Order shall have effect accordingly as if such law were enacted herein.

(4) The Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply for the interpretation of this Order as it applies for the interpretation of an Act of Parliament.

3. The Island of Singapore and its dependencies, the Cocos or Keeling Islands and Christmas Island shall be governed and administered as a separate Colony and shall be called the Colony of Singapore.

PART II.

THE GOVERNOR AND EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.

4. There shall be a Governor and Commander-in-Chief (hereinafter called “the Governor”) in and over the Colony, and appointments to the said office shall be made by Commission under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet.

5. The Governor is hereby empowered and commanded to do all things that belong to his said office in accordance with this Order and such Commission as may be issued to him under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet and according to such Instructions as may from time to time be given to him under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet, or through a Secretary of State, and such Orders in Council and other laws as may from time to time be in force in the Colony.

6. Every person appointed to fill the office of Governor shall, before entering on any of the duties of his office, cause the Commission appointing him to be Governor to be read and published at the seat of Government, in the presence of the Chief Justice or, in his absence, of some other Judge of the Supreme Court, and, if section 13 of this Order is in force, of such members of the Executive Council of the Colony as can conveniently attend; and shall take before them the Oath of Allegiance and the Oath for the due execution of the office of Governor in the forms set out in the First Schedule to this Order, which Oaths the Chief Justice or other Judge as aforesaid shall administer.

7. (1) Whenever the office of Governor is vacant or the Governor is absent from the Colony or the Governor is from any cause prevented from, or incapable of, performing the duties of his office, then such person as His Majesty may appoint under His Sign Manual and Signet or if there is no such person in the Colony so appointed and capable of discharging the duties of administration, the Senior Member of the

===== Page 373 =====
Executive Council then in the Colony and so capable, shall, during His Majesty's pleasure, administer the Government of the Colony, first taking in manner in this Order prescribed the Oaths directed by this Order to be taken by the Governor. Thereupon such person or Member is hereby empowered, subject, if he is so appointed as aforesaid, to the terms of his appointment, to do, during His Majesty's pleasure, all things that belong to the Office of Governor as provided in this Order:

Provided that the Governor or any person appointed as aforesaid shall not be regarded as absent from the Colony or prevented from or incapable of performing the duties of his office for the purposes of this Order, during his passage from one part of the Colony to another or during a visit to the Malayan Union or when there is a subsisting appointment of a Deputy under the next succeeding section of this Order.

(2) Any such person as aforesaid shall not continue to administer the Government after the Governor or some other person having a prior right to administer the same has notified that he is about to assume or resume the administration.

8. (1) Whenever the Governor has occasion to be absent from the seat of Government but not from the Colony or to be absent from the Colony for a period which he has reason to believe will be of short duration or whenever by reason of illness which he has reason to believe will be of short duration he considers it desirable so to do, he may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint any person resident in the Colony to be his Deputy during such absence or illness, and in that capacity to exercise and perform for and on behalf of the Governor during such absence or illness all such functions of the Governor as shall be specified in such Instrument.

(2) By the appointment of a Deputy as aforesaid the power and authority of the Governor shall not be abridged, altered, or in any way affected otherwise than as His Majesty may at any time direct, and every such Deputy shall conform to and observe all such instructions as the Governor shall from time to time address to him for his guidance.

(3) Any appointment under this section may at any time be revoked by the Governor or by a Secretary of State and in case of absence as aforesaid, shall cease and determine upon the return of the Governor to the seat of Government or to the Colony, as the case may be.

Public Seal.

9. The Governor shall keep and use the Public Seal of the Colony for sealing all things that shall pass the said Seal. Until a Public Seal shall be provided for the Colony, an official stamp bearing the inscription "Colony of Singapore. Public Seal" may be used as the Public Seal.

Grants of land.

10. Subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force in the Colony and of any Instructions from time to time given to the Governor under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, the Governor, in His Majesty's name and on His Majesty's behalf, may make and execute, under the Public Seal, grants and dispositions of any lands within the Colony which may be lawfully granted or disposed of by His Majesty.

Suspension or dismissal of officers.

11. Subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force in the Colony and to any instructions from time to time given to him by His Majesty through a Secretary of State, the Governor, for cause shown to his satisfaction, may dismiss or suspend from the exercise of his office any person holding any public office within the Colony, or, may take such other disciplinary action as may seem to him desirable.

===== Page 374 =====
12. When any offence has been committed for which the offender may be tried within the Colony, the Governor may, as he shall see occasion, in His Majesty's name and on His Majesty's behalf, grant a pardon to any accomplice in such offence who shall give such information as shall lead to the conviction of the principal offender or any one of such offenders if more than one; and further may grant to any offender convicted of any such offence in any Court within the Colony, a pardon either free or subject to lawful conditions, or any respite either indefinite or for such period as the Governor may see fit, of the execution of any sentence passed on such offender and may remit the whole or any part of such sentence or of any penalties or forfeitures otherwise due to His Majesty.

13. There shall be an Executive Council for the Colony, and the said Council shall consist of such persons as His Majesty shall direct by Instructions under His Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, and all such persons shall hold their places in the Executive Council during His Majesty's pleasure and, subject thereto, for such period and upon such conditions as may be specified in any such Instructions.

PART III.

COURTS.

14.—(1) There shall be in and for the Colony a Court of unlimited civil and criminal jurisdiction to be called the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court shall be a Court of Record and may consist of a High Court and a Court of Appeal.

(2) There shall be a Chief Justice appointed by His Majesty by Letters Patent, or by the Governor by Letters Patent under the Public Seal in accordance with such instructions as he may receive from His Majesty through a Secretary of State, and as many Judges of the Supreme Court, appointed similarly or in manner prescribed, as may from time to time be required. The Chief Justice and Judges of the Supreme Court shall hold office during His Majesty's pleasure.

(3) The constitution, powers and procedure of the Supreme Court and provisions relating to appeals therefrom to His Majesty in Council and provisions relating to the qualifications, order of precedence, duties and powers of Judges, and appointment of temporary Judges, may, subject to the provisions of this Order, be prescribed by laws made under this Order.

15.—(1) Courts subordinate to the Supreme Court and Courts of special jurisdiction may be constituted by laws made under this Order.

(2) Provision may be made by such laws for the hearing and determining of appeals from any such Court by the Supreme Court or otherwise.

PART IV.

LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.

16.—(1) There shall be a Legislative Council in and for the Colony, constituted in accordance with the provisions of this Order.

(2) The Council shall consist of the Governor as President, four ex officio Members, and such Nominated Official Members, not exceeding seven, such Nominated Unofficial Members not exceeding two, and such

===== Page 375 =====
Elected Members not exceeding nine as His Majesty shall direct by instructions under His Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State.

17. The ex officio Members shall be the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary, and the President of the Municipal Commissioners.

18. The Nominated Official Members shall be persons holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony and shall be appointed by the Governor by instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of His Majesty's Instructions through a Secretary of State.

19. The Nominated Unofficial Members shall be British subjects or Malayan Union citizens of the age of twenty-one or upwards not holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony and shall be appointed by the Governor by instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of His Majesty's Instructions through a Secretary of State.

20. The Elected Members shall be British subjects of the age of twenty-one years or upwards, not holding any office of emolument under the Crown, qualified as voters under any prescribed provision, who, the prescribed person is satisfied, are able to speak, and unless incapacitated by blindness or other physical cause, to read and write, the English language with a degree of proficiency sufficient to enable them to take an active part in the proceedings of the Council. Elected Members shall be elected in the manner prescribed.

21. No person shall be capable of being appointed or elected a Member of the Legislative Council or, having been appointed or elected, shall sit and vote therein, who at the time of appointment or election—
   (1) is a person found or declared to be of unsound mind under any law in force in the Colony; or
   (2) has, in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection, been sentenced to death or penal servitude or to imprisonment by whatever name called, for a term exceeding six months and has not either suffered the punishment to which he was sentenced or such other punishment as may by competent authority have been substituted therefor or received a free pardon; or
   (3) is an undischarged bankrupt; or
   (4) in the case of a Nominated Unofficial Member is a party to, or a member of a firm or a director or manager of a company which is a party to, any subsisting contract with the Government of the Colony for or on account of the public service or is otherwise to his knowledge interested in any such contract and shall not have disclosed to the Governor the nature of such contract and his interest or the interest, or any such firm or company therein; or
   (b) in the case of an Elected Member, is a party to, or a member of a firm, or a director or manager of a company which is a party to any subsisting contract with the Government of the Colony for or on account of the public service or is otherwise to his knowledge interested in any such contract and has not published within one month before the day of election, in the Gazette or in some newspaper circulating in the Colony, a notice setting out the nature of such contract and his interest or the interest of any such firm or company therein; or
   (5) in the case of an Elected Member is disqualified for membership of the Council under any law for the time being in force in the Colony relating to offences connected with the election of Members.

===== Page 376 =====
22. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, every Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council shall hold his seat in the Legislative Council during His Majesty's pleasure.

(2) Every Member shall in any case cease to be a Member at the next dissolution of the Legislative Council after his appointment or election, or previously if his seat shall become vacant under the provisions of this Order.

(3) The seat of a Member of the Legislative Council (other than an ex officio Member) shall become vacant—

(a) upon his death; or

(b) if he shall, without the leave of the Governor, be absent from two consecutive meetings of the Council; or

(c) if he shall cease to be a British subject; or shall take any oath, or make any declaration or acknowledgment of allegiance, obedience or adherence to any foreign power or State; or shall do, concur in or adopt any act done with the intention that he shall become a subject or citizen of any foreign Power or State; or

(d) if he shall be declared a bankrupt under any law in force in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection; or

(e) if in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection, he shall be sentenced to death, or imprisonment, by whatever name called, for a term exceeding six months; or

(f) if he shall be found or declared insane under any law in force in the Colony; or

(g) if he shall become disqualified for membership of the Council under any law or regulation for the time being in force in the Colony relating to offences connected with the election of Members; or

(h) if, being a Nominated Official Member, a Nominated Unofficial Member or Elected Member, he shall, by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor resign his seat in the Legislative Council; or

(i) if, being a Nominated Official Member, he shall cease to hold office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony; or

(j) if, being an Elected Member, he shall be appointed to or act in any such office or being a Nominated Unofficial Member he shall be appointed permanently to any such office; or

(k) if he shall otherwise cease to possess qualification for election or appointment, as the case may be; or

(l) if, being a Nominated Unofficial Member or Elected Member, he shall, without the approval of the Governor, become a party to, or if any firm in which he is a partner, or any company of which he is a director or manager, shall become a party to, or if he shall be otherwise interested in, any contract with the Government of the Colony for or on account of the Public service and shall not before the making of the contract have disclosed to the Governor the nature of such contract and his interest, or the interest of any such firm or company therein.

===== Page 377 =====
(4) If a Nominated Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council is appointed temporarily to any office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony, or is appointed to act in any such office, he shall not sit or vote in the Legislative Council as an Unofficial Member as long as he continues to hold or act in that office.

(5) Any person vacating a seat as a Member of the Legislative Council may, if qualified, be again appointed or elected as a Member from time to time.

(6) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council, and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until declared, in the manner aforesaid, to be again capable of discharging his said functions.

(7) The Governor may by Instrument under the Public Seal suspend any Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member from exercising his functions as a Member of the Legislative Council. Every such suspension shall forthwith be reported by the Governor to His Majesty through a Secretary of State and shall remain in force unless and until it is removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal or by His Majesty through a Secretary of State, or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the Legislative Council.

(8) All questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain an Elected Member shall be determined as may be prescribed.

(9) All questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain a Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member shall be referred to and decided by the Governor in Council; the decision shall be final and shall not be called in question in any Court in the Colony.

23.—(1) Whenever there is a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Legislative Council as ex officio Members, Nominated Official Members, or Nominated Unofficial Members, by reason that—

(a) an ex officio Member is administering the Government of the Colony; or

(b) one person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the four officers specified in section 17 of this Order; or

(c) no person is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or

(d) a Nominated Official Member is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or

(e) the seat of a Nominated Official Member or of a Nominated Unofficial Member is vacant for any cause other than a dissolution of the Council; or

(f) a Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council consequent on a declaration by the Governor, as provided in this Order, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or

(g) a Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member is suspended from exercising his functions as a Member; or

===== Page 378 =====
(h) A Member is absent from the Colony; or
(i) A Nominated Unofficial Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of his having been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony or to act in any such office;
the Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint a person to be a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) If the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Nominated Official Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as a Nominated Official Member; and if the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Nominated Unofficial Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as a Nominated Unofficial Member.

(3) Every person appointed to be a Temporary Member under this section shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—
(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Nominated Official Members, a Nominated Official Member;
(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Nominated Unofficial Members, a Nominated Unofficial Member;
and, subject to the provisions of this section, the provisions of section 22 of this Order shall apply accordingly:

Provided that, in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed shall not be regarded as a Nominated Official Member in computing the number of such Members for the purposes of sub-section (2) of section 16 of this Order.

(4) The Governor shall forthwith report every such temporary appointment to His Majesty through a Secretary of State. Any such appointment may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be disallowed by His Majesty through a Secretary of State or revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment under this section shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of disallowance by His Majesty or of revocation by the Governor or on supersession of the appointment by the definitive appointment of a person to fill the vacancy or when the vacancy shall otherwise cease to exist.

24. The Governor may summon to any meeting of the Legislative Council any person holding public office under the Crown in the Colony, notwithstanding that such person may not be a Member of the Council, when, in the opinion of the Governor, the business before the Council renders the presence of such person desirable. Any person so summoned shall be entitled to take part in the proceedings of the Council relating to the business in respect of which he is summoned as if he were a Member of the Council, except that he shall not have the right to vote in the Council.

25. The Governor, if present, shall preside at meetings of the Council, and, in his absence, such Member as the Governor may appoint or, in the absence of such Member, or if no Member be so appointed, the senior Member of Council actually present shall preside.

===== Page 379 =====
Quorum. 26. No business except that of adjournment shall be transacted by the Council if objection is taken by any Member present that there are present less than one quarter of the Members besides the Governor or other Member presiding.

Precedence of Members. 27.—(1) After the Governor the Members of the Council shall take precedence as His Majesty may specially assign and, if precedence be not so assigned, as follows:

First, the ex officio Members in the order in which they are mentioned in section 17 of this Order;

Secondly, the Nominated Official Members appointed under section 18 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments as Nominated Official Members, or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Thirdly, Nominated Official Members temporarily appointed under section 23 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Fourthly, the Nominated Unofficial Members and Elected Members according to the lengths of time during which they have been continuously Members of the Council: Members elected or appointed at the same time taking precedence among themselves as the Governor may assign.

(2) For the purposes of the preceding sub-section—

(a) when the Council is dissolved, Nominated Official Members and Nominated Unofficial Members appointed to fill vacancies caused thereby shall be deemed to have been appointed, and Members elected at the ensuing elections shall be deemed to have been elected by virtue of those elections, at the date on which the report of the first successful candidate for election is made to the Governor; and

(b) paragraph (a) of this sub-section shall apply to the Members elected or appointed to the Legislative Council as first constituted under this Order as if such elections or appointments were consequent upon a dissolution of the Council; and

(c) in ascertaining the period during which a person has continuously been an Elected Member or a Nominated Unofficial Member of the Council, no account shall be taken of any interval between the vacation by that person of his seat in the Council in consequence of a dissolution of the Council and the date of his re-election or re-appointment to fill a vacancy in the Council caused by that dissolution.

PART V

LEGISLATION AND PROCEDURE IN LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL

Power to make laws. 28. Subject to the provisions of this Order, it shall be lawful for the Governor, with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council, to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Colony.

===== Page 380 =====
29. Save as otherwise provided in this Order, all questions proposed for decision in the Council shall be determined by a majority of the votes of the Members present and voting. The Governor shall not have an original vote, but, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, he shall have a casting vote. In the absence of the Governor, the Member presiding shall have an original vote and also, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, a casting vote.

30.—(1) If the Governor shall consider that it is expedient in the interests of public order, public faith or good government that any Bill introduced or any motion proposed in the Council shall have effect, then if the Council fail to pass such a Bill or motion within such time and in such form as the Governor may think reasonable and expedient, the Governor, at any time in his discretion, may, notwithstanding any provisions of this Order or of any Standing Rules or Orders of the Council, declare that such Bill or motion shall have effect as if it had been passed by the Council, either in the form in which it was so introduced or proposed or with such amendments as the Governor shall think fit which have been moved or proposed in the Council or in any Committee thereof; and thereupon the said Bill or motion shall have effect as if it had been so passed, and, in the case of any such Bill, the provisions of this Order, relating to assent to Bills and disallowance of laws shall apply accordingly.

(2) In this section the expression "public order, public faith or good government" shall without prejudice to their generality, include the following:

(a) the responsibility of the Colony as a component part of the British Empire, including foreign relations and relations with other parts of the British Empire;

(b) all questions relating to defence, including provision, construction, maintenance and use of defence works, areas and communications;

(c) subjects upon which, in the opinion of the Governor or of a Secretary of State, it is necessary to secure uniformity in Legislation between the Colony and the Malayan Union; and

(d) all matters pertaining to the creation or abolition of any public office and to the appointment, salary or other conditions of service of any public officer or officers.

(3) The Governor shall forthwith report to a Secretary of State every case in which he shall make any such declaration as is mentioned in sub-section (1) of this section and the reason therefor.

(4) If any Member of the Legislative Council objects to any declaration made under this section, he may, within seven days of the making thereof, submit to the Governor a statement in writing of his reasons for so objecting and a copy of such statement shall, if furnished by such Member, be forwarded by the Governor as soon as practicable to a Secretary of State.

(5) Any such declaration, other than a declaration relating to a Bill, may be revoked by a Secretary of State, and the Governor shall notify such revocation in the Gazette; and from the date of such notification any resolution which shall have had effect by virtue of the declaration revoked shall cease to have effect and the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 38 of the Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply to such revocation as they apply to the repeal of an Act of Parliament.

===== Page 381 =====
31.—(1) No Bill shall become a law until either the Governor shall assent thereto in His Majesty's name and on His Majesty's behalf, and shall sign the same in token of assent, or His Majesty shall give his assent thereto through a Secretary of State.

(2) When a Bill is presented to the Governor for his assent, he shall, according to his discretion, but subject to the provisions of this Order and of any instructions addressed to him under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, declare that he assents or refuses to assent thereto, or that he reserves the Bill for the signification of His Majesty's pleasure.

(3) A law assented to by the Governor shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the date on which such assent shall be given, or, if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment (including any enactment in force at the commencement of this Order) that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

(4) A Bill reserved for the signification of His Majesty's pleasure shall become a law so soon as His Majesty shall have given His assent thereto, through a Secretary of State, and the Governor shall have signified such assent by Proclamation in the Gazette. Every such law shall come into operation on the date of such Proclamation or, if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment (including any enactment in force at the commencement of this Order) that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

32.—(1) Any law to which the Governor shall have given his assent may be disallowed by His Majesty through a Secretary of State.

(2) Whenever any law has been disallowed by His Majesty, the Governor shall cause notice of such disallowance to be published in the Gazette.

(3) Without prejudice to anything lawfully done thereunder, every law so disallowed shall cease to have effect as soon as notice of such disallowance shall be published as aforesaid. Thereafter any enactment repealed or amended by such law shall have effect as if such law had not been made, but save as aforesaid, the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 38 of the Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply to such disallowance as they apply to the repeal of an Act of Parliament.

33. Subject to the provisions of this Order, the Governor and the Council shall, in the transaction of business and the passing of laws, conform as nearly as may be to the directions contained in any Instructions under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet which may from time to time be addressed to the Governor in that behalf.

34. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of such Instructions as aforesaid, the Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its own proceedings and the conduct of business and for the passing, intitulating and numbering of Bills, and for the presentation of the same to the Governor for his assent, but no such Rules or Orders shall have effect unless and until they shall have been approved by the Governor.

35. The official language of the Council shall be English.

===== Page 382 =====
36. Except for the purpose of enabling this section to be complied with, no Member shall sit or vote in the Council until he shall have taken and subscribed before the Governor, or some person authorised by the Governor in that behalf, the Oath of Allegiance in the form set out in the First Schedule to this Order:

Provided that every person authorised by law to make an affirmation instead of taking an oath in legal proceedings may make such affirmation in like terms instead of the said oath.

37. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council, any Member may introduce any Bill or propose any motion for debate in, or may present any petition to, the Council, and the same shall be debated and disposed of according to the Standing Rules and Orders:

Provided that, except with the recommendation or consent of the Governor signified thereto, the Council shall not proceed upon any Bill, amendment, motion or petition, which, in the opinion of the Governor or of the presiding Member would—

(a) dispose of, or charge any public revenue or public funds of the Colony, or revoke or alter any disposition thereof or charge thereon, or impose, alter, or repeal any rate, tax or duty; or

(b) suspend the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council or any of them.

38.—(1) The sessions of the Legislative Council shall be held at such times and places as the Governor shall from time to time by Proclamation appoint.

(2) There shall be a session of the Council once at least in every year, so that a period of twelve months shall not intervene between the last sitting in one session and the first sitting in the next session.

39.—(1) The Governor may, at any time, by Proclamation, prorogue or dissolve the Legislative Council.

(2) On dissolution, all Members shall vacate their seats and the Council shall be reconstituted by election and appointment in accordance with the provisions of this Order at such time within three months of the dissolution, as the Governor shall by Proclamation appoint.

PART VI

TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

40.—(1) Until such time as section 13 and Parts IV and V of this Order shall come into operation, it shall be lawful for the Governor to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Colony.

(2) In making such laws the Governor shall consult the Advisory Council.

(3) Section 32 of the Order shall apply to any law made under this section as it applies to a law assented to by the Governor.

41.—(1) There shall be an Advisory Council which shall consist of the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary and such other persons as the Governor may by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint; and such persons shall hold their places in the said Council during the Governor's pleasure.

===== Page 383 =====
(2) The Governor alone shall be entitled to submit questions to the Advisory Council for their advice. The Governor may act in opposition to the advice given to him by the Members of the Advisory Council if he shall in any case deem it right so to do. In such case, it shall be competent to any Member of the Advisory Council to require that there be recorded on the Minutes any advice or opinion he may give upon the question and the grounds therefor.

(3) The Governor may regulate the procedure and practice of the Advisory Council in such manner as he shall see fit.

(4) The Governor may, by Proclamation in the Gazette, declare that this section shall cease to have effect, and thereupon this section shall cease to have effect accordingly on the date specified in the Proclamation.

42.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, the existing laws shall, except in so far as the same shall, in their application to the Colony or any part thereof be repealed, amended or otherwise affected by or under any Act of Parliament, Order of His Majesty in Council or any law made under the provisions of this Order, continue to have effect in the Colony or in that part thereof to which such law applied prior to the appointed day, but shall be construed subject to such modifications as may be necessary to bring them into conformity with the provisions of this Order.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section, the existing laws shall, except as aforesaid, in their application to the Colony, be construed, where the context admits, subject to the following modifications:

(a) references to the Colony of the Straits Settlements shall be construed as referring (but not exclusively) to the Colony;

(b) references to the Settlement of Singapore shall be construed as references to the Colony;

(c) references to the Governor or Governor in Council, or to any officer of the Colony of the Straits Settlements, or to any officer of, or authority or body constituted in or for, the Straits Settlements, shall be construed as references to the Governor or Governor in Council, or to the corresponding officer of, or authority or body constituted in or for the Colony, as the case may be; and

(d) references to the Chief Justice or to any Court, Judge or Magistrate of the Straits Settlements shall be construed as references to the Chief Justice or to the corresponding Court, Judge or Magistrate of the Colony.

(3) The adaptations and modifications specified in the second column of the Second Schedule to this Order shall be made in the enactments mentioned in the first column of that Schedule.

43. Subject to the express provisions of this Order, nothing in this Order shall affect the validity or future operation of any lawful act done by any person or authority before the appointed day in any territory comprised in the Colony.

===== Page 384 =====
44. All proceedings other than proceedings in the Prize Court commenced before the 15th day of February, 1942, in any Court of Justice in or having jurisdiction in the territory comprised in the Colony may be carried on in like manner, as nearly as may be, as if this Order and the Act of 1946 had not been made or passed but in the corresponding Court of the Colony, and any such proceeding may be amended in such manner as may appear necessary or proper in order to bring it into conformity with the provisions of the Act of 1946 and of this Order.

45. Courts constituted for the Colony shall have within their respective powers, jurisdiction with respect to all offences (including offences against Proclamations issued by, or under the Authority of the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia) and causes of action (other than matters of Prize) committed or arising before the appointed day for which the accused might have been tried, or proceedings might have been had, within the Settlement of Singapore under the law (including the provisions of any such Proclamation) in force in the Straits Settlements prior to the appointed day, and such jurisdiction shall be exercised in conformity with the law applicable in the Settlement of Singapore at the date when the offence was committed or the cause of action arose and in accordance, as nearly as may be, with the procedure in force in Courts constituted under this Order.

46. Military Courts established in the Settlement of Singapore by the British Military Administration by virtue of any Proclamation made by, or under the authority of, the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia, in which proceedings have been commenced and are pending at the date hereof shall be deemed to be lawfully constituted Courts with jurisdiction to continue and conclude such proceedings and to issue warrants for the custody of prisoners and the carrying out of sentences in accordance with such Proclamation, after the appointed day. The powers and functions of a confirming authority or reviewing authority under any such Proclamation may be exercised by such person or persons as the Governor shall designate in that behalf.

47. — (1) In this section—

(i) "Straits Settlements property" means property which, immediately before the appointed day, was vested in, or was in the possession, or under the control, or held on account, of His Majesty, or the Government of the Straits Settlements, or any officer of such Government.

(ii) Any reference to property vested in any person or authority shall be construed as including a reference to any property in the possession, or under the control, or held on account, of that person or authority; and any direction that property shall be vested in any person or authority shall likewise be construed as including a direction, as the case may require, that the possession or control of property shall be transferred to, or that property shall be held on account of, that person or authority.

===== Page 385 =====
(2) Save as in this section otherwise provided, all Straits Settlements property which was immediately before the appointed day, either—

(a) immovable property situate in the Settlement of Singapore; or

(b) vested solely for a purpose of the Government of the Straits Settlements which will, after the appointed day, be a purpose of the Government of the Colony;

shall vest in His Majesty or in the appropriate officer of the Government of the Colony, or in the person or body prescribed under sub-section (6) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Colony.

(3) Save as in this section otherwise provided, any Straits Settlements property which was, immediately before the appointed day, vested for any purpose of the Straits Settlements Government common to the Settlement of Singapore and to any other territory or territories formerly included in the Straits Settlements, but not included in the Colony, shall vest in His Majesty or in the person or body prescribed under sub-section (6) of this section but shall be apportioned between the Colony and any such territory by agreement between the Governor and the Governor of such territory with the approval of a Secretary of State; or, in default of such agreement, shall be apportioned by order of a Secretary of State. Any such agreement or order may contain provision for the assessment of values, for the perfecting of any transfer of property mentioned therein, and for financial and other adjustments, and may contain such other provisions as may be considered necessary or expedient for carrying the apportionment into effect.

(4) Any Straits Settlements property apportioned to the Colony under sub-section (3) of this section shall be vested in His Majesty, or the appropriate officer of the Government of the Colony, or the persons or body prescribed under sub-section (6) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Colony; and the Governor may make such vesting or other orders as may be necessary for carrying the provisions of this section into effect, and for such purpose may appoint and empower persons to transfer property.

(5) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, any property which, immediately before the appointed day was vested in the Ruler of any of the Malay States, for any of the following purposes, shall continue to be vested in the Sultan of the State for the same purposes, that is to say:

(a) any property held by, or in trust for, or for the benefit of a Ruler for his official or personal use; or

(b) any building or land used for purposes of the Muhammadan religion, or property pertaining to the endowment of Muhammadan religious institutions:

Nothing in this section shall affect the use or enjoyment of any property vested in a Ruler or in His Majesty for any of the said purposes.

(6) The Governor may make regulations for determining, in cases of doubt, the person or body in whom property affected by this section shall be vested, and generally for giving effect to this section, and may by order, exclude any particular property from the operation of this section, or declare, for the removal of doubt, whether, and in what manner, any particular property is affected thereby.

===== Page 386 =====
48.—(1) All liabilities incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Straits Settlements for any of the purposes of such Government (other than liabilities incurred solely for a purpose which will, after the appointed day, be a purpose of the Government of any territory formerly included in the Straits Settlements, but not included in the Colony) shall be deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Colony.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section:

(a) Such liabilities shall include claims in respect of Loans and War Savings Certificates issued, and Post Office Savings Bank deposits received, by the Government of the Straits Settlements.

(b) Claims to pensions, gratuities and other like allowances in respect of service under the Government of the Straits Settlements before the appointed day, whether arising before or after that day, shall be liabilities deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Colony.

(3) It shall be lawful for the Governor, with the approval of a Secretary of State, to make, vary, rescind and carry into effect, arrangements with the Governor of any territory formerly included in the Straits Settlements, but not included in the Colony, for the payment by the Government of that territory to the Government of the Colony, of proportionate contributions towards the sums necessary to defray the liabilities of the Government of the Straits Settlements transferred by this Order to the Government of the Colony including liabilities for the service and repayment of Loans and War Savings Certificates issued, Post Office Savings Bank deposits received, and pensions, allowances and gratuities payable, by the Government of the Straits Settlements.

(4) Claims in respect of liabilities deemed, by virtue of this section, to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Colony which, if the Act of 1946 had not been passed and this Order had not been made, might have been enforced against His Majesty in His Government of the Straits Settlements, or against any officer of such Government in his official capacity or against any department of such Government, in connection with the administration of the Straits Settlements, may be enforced, in such manner as may be prescribed by laws for the time being in force or by regulations made by the Governor under sub-section (5) of this section, against His Majesty in His Government of the Colony or against the appropriate officer of that Government, as the case may be.

(5) The Governor, with the approval of a Secretary of State, may make regulations for determining in any case of doubt the person or body by or against whom claims may be enforced under this section and generally for giving effect thereto.

49. The provisions of sections 42 to 48 inclusive of this Order may be amended by laws made under Part V or under section 40 of this Order.

PART VII.

MISCELLANEOUS.

50.—(1) Provision may be made by laws made under this Order, and, until such provision has been made, by regulations made by the Governor, regulating any matter which by this Order or by Instructions under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet is to be prescribed.

Provisions necessary to give effect to this Order.

===== Page 387 =====
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section, provision may be made regulating the election to the Legislative Council of Elected Members, including provision for regulating any of the following matters, that is to say:

(a) the persons, associations or bodies by whom Members are to be elected;
(b) the holding of elections;
(c) the qualifications of voters;
(d) the registration of voters;
(e) the ascertainment of the qualifications of voters and candidates;
(f) offences in relation to elections including the trial and punishment thereof;
(g) the disposal of election petitions and the determination of questions otherwise arising regarding membership of the Council.

(3) Such regulations shall be published in the Gazette; and thereafter every such regulation shall take effect on the day of publication or on such other date as may be therein specified and shall have the force of law.

Unqualified persons sitting or voting. Penalty.

51.—(1) Any person who—

(a) having been elected or appointed a Member of the Legislative Council, but not having been, at the time of such election or appointment, qualified to be so elected or appointed, shall sit or vote in the Legislative Council; or

(b) shall sit or vote in the Legislative Council after his seat thereon has become vacant or he has become disqualified from sitting or voting therein;

knowing, or having reasonable grounds for knowing, that he was so disqualified, or that his seat has become vacant, as the case may be, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding two hundred dollars for every day upon which he so sits or votes.

(2) The said penalty shall be recoverable by action in the Supreme Court at the suit of the Attorney General.

Vacancies not to disqualify.

52. No Council constituted by this Order shall be disqualified from the transaction of business by reason of any vacancy among the Members, or by reason of the sitting or voting therein of any unqualified or disqualified person.

Retrospective effect of laws.

53. For the avoidance of doubts it is hereby declared that any law or regulation made under this Order may be made to operate retrospectively to any date.

Labuan.

54. Until other provision shall be made for the government and administration of the Settlement of Labuan and its Dependencies (in this section referred to as "Labuan") Labuan shall be a part of the Colony, and this Order shall have effect in all respects as if the Colony included Labuan:

Provided that the provisions of this Order shall not come into operation in Labuan until such day or days as the Governor may by Order appoint and the Governor may fix different days for different purposes and different provisions of this Order; and the Governor may by Order make such adaptations and modifications as the Governor may seem expedient, in the said provisions in their application to Labuan.

===== Page 388 =====
55.—(1) If any difficulty shall arise in bringing into operation any of the provisions of this Order or in giving effect to the purposes thereof, a Secretary of State may, by Order, make such provision as seems to him necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing the difficulty and may by such Order amend or add to any provision of this Order:

Provided that no Order under this section shall be made later than the first day of January, 1948.

(2) Any Order under this section may be amended, added to, or revoked by further Order, and may be given retrospective effect to a day not earlier than the appointed day.

56. Nothing in this Order shall affect the power of His Majesty in Council to make laws from time to time for the peace, order and good government of the Colony.

Power reserved to His Majesty.

===== Page 389 =====
FIRST SCHEDULE

OATH OF ALLEGIANCE.
(Sections 6 and 36).

I, ... do swear that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to His Majesty King George VI, His Heirs and Successors, according to Law. So help me God.

OATH FOR THE DUE EXECUTION OF THE OFFICE OF GOVERNOR.

I, ... do swear that I will well and truly serve His Majesty King George VI, His Heirs and Successors, in the Office of Governor. So help me God.

THE SECOND SCHEDULE.
(Section 42 (3)).

Adaptation of Acts of Parliament.

Title of Act.

1. The Straits Settlements Offences Act, 1874.

37 & 38 Vict. c. 38.

1. The Act shall have effect as if the word "territories" were substituted for the word "Colony" wherever such last mentioned word occurs; and the territories of the Straits Settlements (in the Act called the colony of the Straits Settlements) shall be deemed to include (among other territories) the Colony of Singapore.

2. The Straits Settlements and Johore Territorial Waters (Agreement) Act, 1928.

18 & 19 Geo. V. c. 23.

2. The Act and the agreement scheduled thereto shall have effect as if the words "the Colony of Singapore" were substituted for the words "the Straits Settlements" and for the words "the Settlement of Singapore" wherever such words occur.

Printed by His Majesty's Stationery Office Press,
Drury Lane, W.C.2.

===== Page 390 =====
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE
The 27th day of March, 1946

Present

THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL.

WHEREAS there was this day read at the Board a letter to the Lord President of the Council from the Right Honourable George Henry Hall, one of His Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, transmitting the Draft of Instructions to be given to the Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Malayan Union:

His Majesty, having taken the same into consideration, was pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council, to approve thereof, and to order, as it is hereby ordered, that the Right Honourable George Henry Hall, one of His Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, do prepare the said Instructions (which are hereunto annexed) for His Majesty's Royal Signature.

===== Page 391 =====
INSTRUCTIONS to Our Governor and Commander-in-Chief in and over the Malayan Union, or to any other officer for the time being administering the Government of the Malayan Union.

WHEREAS by the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946 (hereinafter called "the Order in Council") We have ordered that as from the appointed day there shall be a Governor and Commander-in-Chief (in the Order in Council and hereinafter called "the Governor") in and over the Malayan Union (in the Order in Council and hereinafter called "the Union"):

AND WHEREAS We have by the Order in Council empowered and commanded the Governor to do all things that belong to his said office in accordance with the Order in Council and such Commission as may be issued to him under Our Sign Manual and Signet and according to such Instructions as may from time to time be given to him under our Sign Manual and Signet, or through a Secretary of State, and such Orders in Council and other laws as may from time to time be in force in the Union:

AND WHEREAS We are minded to issue these Our Instructions under Our Sign Manual and Signet for the guidance of the Governor and any other Officer who may administer the Government of the Union:

NOW, THEREFORE, as from the appointed day, We do hereby direct and enjoin and declare Our Will and pleasure as follows:

1. The Governor may, whenever he thinks fit, require any person in the public service of the Union to take the Oath of Allegiance in the form prescribed by the Order in Council, together with such other oath or oaths as may from time to time be prescribed by any laws in force in the Union. The Governor is to administer such oaths or cause them to be administered by some public officer of the Union.

2. Whenever there is a subsisting appointment of a Deputy to the Governor under the Order in Council, these Instructions, so far as they apply to any matter or thing to be done, or any functions to be performed by such Deputy, shall be deemed to be addressed to and shall be observed by such Deputy.

3. The Executive Council of the Union shall consist of the Governor as Chairman, three ex officio members, that is to say the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General and the Financial Secretary, together with two members holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union (hereinafter called "Official Members") and five members, not holding such office (hereinafter called "Unofficial Members") to be appointed by Us or by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal of the Union in pursuance of instructions from Us through a Secretary of State.

===== Page 392 =====
4. (1) Subject to the provisions of the Order in Council, every Official or Unofficial Member of the Executive Council shall hold his seat in Council during His Majesty's pleasure, and, subject thereto, shall cease to be a Member at the end of three years from the date of the Instrument by which he is appointed, or such earlier date as may be provided by such Instrument; or previously if his seat shall become vacant under the provisions of these Instructions.

If any person is appointed to be a Temporary Member of the Council and his temporary appointment is immediately followed by his definitive appointment, the said period of three years shall be reckoned from the date of the Instrument by which he is appointed a Temporary Member.

(2) The seat of a Member of the Executive Council shall become vacant—
(a) upon his death; or
(b) if, being an Official Member, he shall cease to hold office of emolument under the Crown in the Union; or
(c) if, being an Unofficial Member, he shall be appointed permanently to any such office; or
(d) if he shall, by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor, resign his seat in the Executive Council; or
(e) if he shall be absent from the Union without written permission from the Governor:

Provided that a Member shall not be deemed to be absent from the Union for the purpose of this paragraph by reason only of absence in the Colony of Singapore for a period not exceeding one month.

(3) Any person vacating a seat as a Member of the Executive Council may, if qualified, be again appointed from time to time.

(4) If an Unofficial Member be appointed temporarily to any office of emolument under the Crown in the Union or to act in any such office, he shall not sit as an Unofficial Member of the Executive Council so long as he continues to hold or act in that office.

(5) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, suspend any Official or Unofficial Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the Executive Council. Every such suspension shall forthwith be reported by the Governor to Us through a Secretary of State and shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal, or by Us through a Secretary of State, or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the Executive Council.

(6) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Official or Unofficial Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council, and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared, in manner aforesaid, to be again capable of discharging his said functions.

5. (1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council by reason of the fact that—
(a) an ex officio or Official Member is administering the Government of the Union; or
(b) one person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the three officers specified in clause 3 of these Instructions; or

===== Page 393 =====
(c) No person is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or
(d) a Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or
(e) the seat of a Member is vacant for any cause; or
(f) a Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in these Instructions, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or
(g) a Member is absent from the Union; or
(h) an Unofficial Member has been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union or to act in any such office;

a person may be appointed a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) The said person shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal and—
(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as ex officio or Official Members, shall be a person holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union; and
(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as Unofficial Members, shall be a person not holding any such office.

(3) Every person so appointed shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—
(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of Members sitting in the Executive Council as ex officio or Official Members, an Official Member; and
(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as Unofficial Members, an Unofficial Member; and, subject to the provisions of this clause, the provisions of clause 4 of these Instructions shall apply accordingly: Provided that, in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed shall not be regarded as an Official Member in computing the number of such Members for purposes of clause 3 of these Instructions.

(4) The Governor shall forthwith report every such temporary appointment to Us through a Secretary of State. Any such appointment may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be disallowed by Us through a Secretary of State or revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of disallowance by Us or of revocation by the Governor, or on supersession of the appointment by the definite appointment of a person to fill the vacancy, or when the vacancy shall otherwise cease to exist.

6. The Members of the Executive Council shall take precedence as We may specially assign and, in the absence of such assignment, as follows:

First, the ex officio Members in the order in which they are specified in clause 3 of these Instructions;

===== Page 394 =====
Secondly, the Official Members, according to the priority of their appointments as Official Members; or if appointed on the same day, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor;

Thirdly, the Official Members temporarily appointed under clause 5, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor;

Fourthly, the Unofficial Members in order according to the dates when they were first appointed to be Members, or temporary Members as the case may be, of the Executive Council, and, in the case of more than one appointment on the same day, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor or, in the absence of such assignment, according to the alphabetical order of their names:

Provided that, where a Member is reappointed to fill a vacancy caused by the termination of his own term of office, the date from which he has been continuously a Member of the Council (any interval between such termination and re-appointment being disregarded) shall be regarded as the date of his appointment for the purposes of this clause.

7.—(1) The Executive Council shall not be summoned except by the authority of the Governor.

(2) The Executive Council shall not be disqualified for the transaction of business by reason of any vacancy among the Members; but no business except that of adjournment shall be transacted if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than three Members present besides the Governor or Member presiding.

8. The Governor shall, so far as is practicable, attend and preside at all meetings of the Executive Council, and, in his absence, such member as the Governor may appoint or, in the absence of such Member or if no Member be so appointed, the senior Member of the Council present shall preside.

9. The Governor shall consult with the Executive Council in the execution of all powers and authorities conferred upon him, except in cases—

(a) which are of such a nature that, in his judgment, Our service would sustain material prejudice by consulting the Council thereupon; or

(b) in which the matters to be decided shall be too unimportant to require their advice; or

(c) in which the matters are too urgent to admit of their advice being given by the time within which it may be necessary for him to act.

In every case falling within paragraph (c) of this clause, he shall, as soon as practicable, communicate to the Council the measures which he shall have adopted with the reasons therefor.

10. The Governor shall alone be entitled to submit questions to the Executive Council; but if the Governor decline to submit any question to the Council when requested in writing by any Member so to do, it shall be competent to such Member to require that there be recorded upon the Minutes his written application together with the answer returned by the Governor thereto.

11. The Governor may act in opposition to the advice given to him by Members of the Executive Council, if in any case it shall in his judgment be right so to do; but in any such case he shall at the first convenient opportunity, fully report the matter to Us through a Secretary of State with the reasons for his action. In every such case it shall

Summoning and quorum.

Governor to preside.

Consultation with Executive Council.

Governor to propose questions.

===== Page 395 =====
be competent to any Member of the Council to require that there be recorded upon the Minutes any advice or opinion he may give upon the question and the grounds therefor.

12. The Governor shall forthwith communicate to the Executive Council these Our Instructions and all such others as from time to time We may direct, or he shall find convenient for Our service to impart to them.

13. Minutes shall be kept of all the proceedings of the Executive Council and the Legislative Council. At every meeting of each Council the Minutes of the last preceding meeting shall be confirmed, with or without amendment as the case may require, before proceeding to the despatch of any other business. Twice in each year a full transcript of all Minutes of the Executive Council and of the Legislative Council for the preceding half-year shall be transmitted to Us through a Secretary of State.

14.—(1) In the making of laws the Governor and the Legislative Council shall observe, as far as practicable, the following Rules:

(a) All laws shall be styled "Ordinances" and the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor of the Malayan Union, with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council": Provided that in the case of:

(i) any law made by the Governor under section 85 of the Order in Council, the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor of the Malayan Union in accordance with the provisions of section 85 of the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946"; and

(ii) in the case of any law having effect by virtue of a declaration made by the Governor under section 29 of the Order in Council, the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor in accordance with the provisions of section 29 of the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946".

(b) All Ordinances shall be distinguished by titles, and shall be divided into successive sections consecutively numbered, and to every section there shall be annexed in the margin a short indication of its contents. The Ordinances enacted in each year shall be distinguished by consecutive numbers, commencing in each year with the number one.

(c) Each different matter shall be provided for by a different Ordinance without inter-mixing in one and the same Ordinance such things as have no proper relation to each other. No provision shall be inserted in any Ordinance which shall be foreign to what the title of such Ordinance imports; and no permanent provision shall be included in any temporary Ordinance.

(2) In the making of laws Resident Commissioners and State Councils and Settlement Councils shall observe, as far as practicable, the following Rules:

(a) All laws shall be styled "Enactments" and the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor with the advice and consent of the State Council"; or "enacted by the Governor with the advice and consent of the Settlement Council", as the case may be.

===== Page 396 =====
(b) The provisions of sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) of paragraph (1) of this clause shall apply to Enactments of State Councils and Settlement Councils.

(3) In the making of laws, Sultans in Sultan's Advisory Councils shall conform, as nearly as may be, to any Instructions given by the Governor under the Public Seal in that behalf.

15.—(1) Save as hereinafter mentioned, the Governor shall not, without having previously obtained instructions through a Secretary of State, assent to any Bill passed by the Legislative Council, which falls within any of the following classes, unless such Bill contain a clause suspending the operation thereof until the signification in the Union of Our pleasure thereon, that is to say:

(1) Any Bill for the divorce of married persons;
(2) Any Bill whereby any grant of land or money, or other donation or gratuity, may be made to himself;
(3) Any Bill affecting the currency of the Union, or relating to the issue of bank notes;
(4) Any Bill establishing any Banking Association, or amending or altering the constitution, powers, or privileges of any Banking Association;
(5) Any Bill imposing differential duties;
(6) Any Bill the provisions of which shall appear to him to be inconsistent with obligations imposed upon Us by Treaty;
(7) Any Bill interfering with the discipline or control of Our Forces by land or sea or air;
(8) Any Bill relating to questions of defence or any matter affecting naval, military, or air forces or the control of aerial navigation or aircraft or the transport or means of communication of naval, military or air forces;
(9) Any Bill of any extraordinary nature and importance whereby Our prerogative, or the rights and property of Our subjects not residing in the Union, or the trade, transport or communications of any part of Our dominions, may be prejudiced;
(10) Any Bill containing any provision prohibiting regulating or licensing the import or export of goods, or imposing or varying any customs, excise or export duty, tariff, levy or cess, or allowing any discount, rebate or drawback from any such duty, tariff, levy, or cess, or containing any other provision (whether of a similar nature to the foregoing or not), whereby the trade or commerce of the Colony of Singapore might be prejudicially affected, unless the Governor of the said Colony, having previously been informed of the provision, shall have signified that he does not object thereto;
(11) Any Bill whereby persons of any racial, religious or other community are made liable to any disabilities or restrictions to which persons of other such communities are not also subjected or made liable, or are granted advantages not extended to persons of other such communities;
(12) Any Bill the principle of which has evoked serious opposition by any racial, religious, or other community and which in the opinion of the Governor is likely to involve oppression or unfairness to any such community;
(13) Any Bill containing provisions to which Our assent has been once refused, or which have been disallowed by Us:

===== Page 397 =====
Provided that the Governor may assent in Our name to any Bill falling within any of the classes described in this sub-clause (except a Bill falling within any class mentioned in paragraph (6) or (10) of this sub-clause), if he shall have satisfied himself that an urgent necessity exists requiring that such Bill be brought into immediate operation but, in any such case, he shall at the earliest opportunity, transmit to Us any Bill to which he shall have assented, together with his reasons for so assenting.

(2) The Governor shall not, without previously having obtained instructions from a Secretary of State, permit to be introduced or put into operation by subordinate legislation or executive action any such provision as is mentioned in paragraph (10) of sub-clause (1) of this clause, unless the Governor of the Colony of Singapore, having previously been informed of the provision, shall have signified that he does not object thereto.

Private Bills.

16.—(1) Every Bill (not being a Government measure) intended to affect or benefit some particular person, association, or corporate body, shall contain a clause saving the right of Us, Our Heirs and Successors, all bodies politic and corporate, and all others, except such as are mentioned in the Bill and those claiming by, from, or under them.

(2) No such Bill shall be introduced into the Legislative Council until due notice has been given by not less than three successive publications of the Bill in the Gazette of the Union, and the Governor shall not assent thereto in Our Name unless it has been so published. A certificate under the hand of the Governor signifying that such publication has been made shall be transmitted to Us with the Bill or Ordinance.

Laws made by the Governor.

17. The provisions of clauses 15 and 16 shall apply mutatis mutandis to any law made by the Governor under section 85 of the Order in Council as they apply to a Bill requiring the Assent of the Governor.

18. When any Ordinance of the Legislative Council or Enactment of a State or Settlement Council shall have been enacted, the Governor shall forthwith transmit to Us, through a Secretary of State, for the signification of our pleasure, a transcript in duplicate of the Ordinance or Enactment duly authenticated under the Public Seal of the Union and by his own signature, together with an explanation of the reasons and occasion for the enactment of the Ordinance or Enactment.

Laws to be published.

19. As soon as practicable after the commencement of each year, the Governor shall cause a complete collection of all Ordinances and Enactments enacted during the preceding year to be published for general information.

Appointments.

20.—(1) Every appointment by the Governor of any person to any office or employment shall, unless otherwise provided by law, be expressed to be during pleasure only.

(2) Save with the consent of the Governor, no person shall be appointed to public office in the Union who is not a Malayan Union citizen.

Regulations of power of pardon in capital cases.

21.—(1) Whenever any offender shall have been condemned by sentence of any civil Court in the Union to suffer death, the Governor shall call upon the Judge who presided at the trial to make to him a written report of the case of such offender, and shall cause such report to be taken into consideration at a meeting of the Executive Council, and he may cause the said Judge to be specially summoned to attend at such meeting and to produce his notes thereat. The Governor shall not pardon or reprieve any such offender unless it shall appear to

===== Page 398 =====
him expedient so to do, upon receiving the advice of the Executive Council thereon; but in all such cases he is to decide either to extend or to withhold a pardon or reprieve, according to his own deliberate judgment, whether the Members of the Executive Council concur therein or otherwise, entering nevertheless, in the Minutes of the Executive Council, his reasons at length, in case he should decide any such question in opposition to the judgment of the majority of the Members thereof.

(2) Until the Executive Council shall be constituted, references in this clause to the Executive Council shall be construed as references to the Advisory Council.

22. The Governor shall forward to Us, each year, through a Secretary of State, the annual book of returns commonly called the Blue Book, relating to Revenue and Expenditure, Public Works, Legislation, Civil Establishments, Pensions, Population, Schools, Course of Exchange, Imports and Exports, Agricultural Produce, Manufactures, and other matters in the said Blue Book more particularly specified with reference to the state and condition of the Union.

23. Except in circumstances in which he is not regarded as absent from the Union for the purposes of the Order in Council, the Governor shall not quit the Union without having first obtained leave from Us for so doing through a Secretary of State.

24.—(1) In these Our Instructions, unless inconsistent with the context:

“the appointed day” has the same meaning as in the Order in Council;

“the Executive Council”, “the Legislative Council” and “the Advisory Council” mean respectively the Executive Council, the Legislative Council and the Advisory Council of the Union constituted under and by virtue of the Order in Council;

“the Governor” includes every person for the time being administering the Government of the Union;

“Malayan Union citizen” means a citizen of the Union within the meaning of any Order in Council providing for Malayan Union citizenship;

“State Councils”, “Settlement Councils” and “Sultan’s Advisory Councils” mean respectively the State Councils, Settlement Councils and Sultan’s Advisory Councils constituted under and by virtue of the Order in Council; and

“Secretary of State” means one of Our Principal Secretaries of State.

(2) For the purposes of these Our Instructions, a person shall not be deemed to hold an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union by reason only that he is in receipt of a pension or other like allowance in respect of service under the Crown.

If it shall be declared by any law for the time being in force in the Union that an office shall not be an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union for all or any of the purposes of these Our Instructions, these Instructions shall have effect accordingly as if such law were enacted therein.

Given at Our Court at Saint James’s, this 27th day of March, 1946, in the Tenth year of Our Reign.

Printed by His Majesty’s Stationery Office Press,
Drury Lane, W.C.2.

===== Page 399 =====
396

===== Page 400 =====
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE

The 27th day of March, 1946

Present

THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL

WHEREAS there was this day read at the Board a letter to the Lord President of the Council from the Right Honourable George Henry Hall, one of His Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, transmitting the Draft of Instructions to be given to the Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Colony of Singapore:

His Majesty, having taken the same into consideration, was pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council, to approve thereof, and to order, as it is hereby ordered, that the Right Honourable George Henry Hall, one of His Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, do prepare the said Instructions (which are hereunto annexed) for His Majesty's Royal Signature.

===== Page 401 =====
INSTRUCTIONS to Our Governor and Commander-in-Chief in and over Our Colony of Singapore, or to any other officer for the time being administering the Government of Our said Colony.

WHEREAS by the Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946 (hereinafter called "the Order in Council") We have ordered and declared that as from the appointed day there shall be a Governor and Commander-in-Chief (in the Order in Council and hereinafter called "the Governor") in and over Our Colony of Singapore (in the Order in Council and hereinafter called "the Colony"):

AND WHEREAS We have by the Order in Council empowered and commanded the Governor to do all things that belong to his said office in accordance with the Order in Council and such Commission as may be issued to him under Our Sign Manual and Signet and according to such Instructions as may from time to time be given to him under Our Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, and such Orders in Council and other laws as may from time to time be in force in the Colony:

AND WHEREAS We are minded to issue these Our Instructions under Our Sign Manual and Signet for the guidance of the Governor and any other Officer who may administer the Government of the Colony:

NOW, THEREFORE, as from the appointed day, We do hereby direct and enjoin and declare Our Will and pleasure as follows:

Governor to administer oaths.

1. The Governor may, whenever he thinks fit, require any person in the public service of the Colony to take the Oath of Allegiance in the form prescribed by the Order in Council, together with such other oath or oaths as may from time to time be prescribed by any laws in force in the Colony. The Governor is to administer such oaths or cause them to be administered by some public officer of the Colony.

Instructions to be observed by Deputy.

2. Whenever there is a subsisting appointment of a Deputy to the Governor under the Order in Council, these Instructions, so far as they apply to any matter or thing to be done, or any powers or functions to be exercised or performed by such Deputy, shall be deemed to be addressed to and shall be observed by such Deputy.

Members of Executive Council.

3. The Executive Council of the Colony shall consist of the Governor as Chairman, four ex officio members, that is to say the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary and the President of the Municipal Commissioners, Singapore, together with two members (hereinafter called Official Members) holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony and four members (hereinafter called Unofficial Members) not holding such office to be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of instructions from Us through a Secretary of State.

===== Page 402 =====
4.—(1) Subject to the provisions of the Order in Council, every Official or Unofficial Member of the Executive Council shall hold his seat in Council during Our pleasure, and, subject thereto, for three years from the date of the Instrument by which he is appointed, or until such earlier date as may be provided by that Instrument or upon which his seat shall become vacant under the provisions of these Instructions.

If any person is appointed to be a Temporary Member of the Council and his temporary appointment is immediately followed by his definitive appointment, the said period of three years shall be reckoned from the date of the Instrument by which he is temporarily appointed.

(2) The seat of a Member of the Executive Council shall become vacant—
(a) upon his death; or
(b) if, being an Official Member, he shall cease to hold office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony; or
(c) if, being an Unofficial Member, he shall be appointed permanently to any such office; or
(d) if he shall, by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor, resign his seat on the Executive Council; or
(e) if he shall be absent from the Colony without written permission from the Governor:

Provided that a member shall not be deemed to be absent from the Colony for the purposes of this paragraph by reason only of absence in the Malayan Union for a period not exceeding one month.

(3) Any person vacating a seat as a Member of the Executive Council may, if qualified, be again appointed from time to time.

(4) If an Unofficial Member be appointed temporarily to any office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony or to act in any such office, he shall not sit as an Unofficial Member of the Executive Council so long as he continues to hold or act in that office.

(5) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, suspend any Official or Unofficial Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the Executive Council. Every such suspension shall forthwith be reported by the Governor to Us through a Secretary of State and shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal, or by Us through a Secretary of State, or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the Executive Council.

(6) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Official or Unofficial Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council, and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared in manner aforesaid, to be again capable of discharging his said functions.

5.—(1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council by reason of the fact that—
(a) an ex officio or Official Member is administering the Government of the Colony; or
(b) one person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the four officers specified in Clause 3 of these Instructions; or

===== Page 403 =====
(c) no person is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or

(d) a Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or

(e) the seat of a Member is vacant for any cause; or

(f) a Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in these Instructions, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or

(g) a Member is absent from the Colony; or

(h) an Unofficial Member has been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony or to act in any such office;

a person may be appointed a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) The said person shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal and—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as ex officio or Official Members, shall be a person holding office or emolument under the Crown in the Colony; and

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as Unofficial Members, shall be a person not holding any such office.

(3) Every person so appointed shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of Members sitting in the Executive Council as ex officio Members or as Official Members, an Official Member;

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as Unofficial Members, an Unofficial Member; and, subject to the provisions of this clause, the provisions of Clause 4 of these Instructions shall apply accordingly:

Provided that, in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed shall not be regarded as an Official Member in computing the number of such Members for purposes of Clause 3 of these Instructions.

(4) The Governor shall forthwith report every such temporary appointment to Us through a Secretary of State. Any such appointment may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be disallowed by Us through a Secretary of State or revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment under this clause shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of disallowance by Us or of revocation by the Governor, or on supersession of the appointment by the definitive appointment of a person to fill the vacancy, or when the vacancy shall otherwise cease to exist.

===== Page 404 =====
6. The Members of the Executive Council shall take precedence as we may specially assign and, in the absence of such assignment, as follows:

First, the ex officio Members in the order in which they are specified in Clause 3 of these Instructions;

Secondly, the Official Members according to the priority of their appointments as Official Members, or, if appointed on the same day, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor;

Thirdly, the Official Members temporarily appointed under Clause 5 in such order as may be assigned by the Governor;

Fourthly, the Unofficial Members in order according to the dates when they were first appointed to be Members, or Temporary Members as the case may be, of the Executive Council, and, in the case of more than one appointment on the same day, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor or, in the absence of such assignment, according to the alphabetical order of their surnames:

Provided that, where a Member is re-appointed to fill a vacancy caused by the termination of his own term of office, the date from which he has been continuously a Member of the Council (any interval between such termination and re-appointment being disregarded) shall be regarded as the date of his appointment for the purpose of this clause.

7.—(1) The Executive Council shall not be summoned except by the authority of the Governor.

(2) The Executive Council shall not be disqualified for the transaction of business by reason of any vacancy among the Members; but no business except that of adjournment shall be transacted if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than three Members present besides the Governor or Member presiding.

8. The Governor shall, so far as is practicable, attend and preside at all meetings of the Executive Council, and, in his absence, such Member as the Governor may appoint or, in the absence of such Member or if no Member be so appointed, the Senior Member of the Council actually present shall preside.

9. The Governor shall consult with the Executive Council in the execution of all powers and authorities conferred upon him, except in cases—

(a) which are of such a nature that, in his judgment, Our service would sustain material prejudice by consulting the Council thereupon; or

(b) in which the matters to be decided shall be too unimportant to require their advice; or

(c) in which the matters are too urgent to admit of their advice being given by the time within which it may be necessary for him to act.

In every case falling within paragraph (c) of this clause, he shall, as soon as practicable, communicate to the Council the measures which he shall have adopted with the reasons therefor.

===== Page 405 =====
Governor to propose questions.

10. The Governor shall alone be entitled to submit questions to the Executive Council; but if the Governor declines to submit any question to the Council when requested in writing by any Member so to do, it shall be competent to such Member to require that there be recorded upon the Minutes his written application together with the answer returned by the Governor thereto.

The Governor may act in opposition to the advice given to him by Members of the Executive Council, if in any case it shall in his judgment be right so to do; but in any such case he shall, at the first convenient opportunity, fully report the matter to Us through a Secretary of State with the reasons for his action. In every such case it shall be competent to any Member of the Council to require that there be recorded upon the Minutes any advice or opinion that he may give upon the question and the grounds therefor.

Governor to communicate Instructions to Executive Council.

12. The Governor shall forthwith communicate to the Executive Council these Our Instructions and all such others as, from time to time, We may direct or he shall find convenient for Our service to impart to them.

Minutes of the Executive and Legislative Councils.

13. Minutes shall be kept of all the proceedings of the Executive Council and of the Legislative Council. At every meeting of each Council the Minutes of the last preceding meeting shall be confirmed, with or without amendment as the case may require, before proceeding to the despatch of any other business. Twice in each year a full transcript of all Minutes of each Council for the preceding half-year shall be transmitted to Us through a Secretary of State.

Rules for the enactment of Ordinances.

14. In the making of laws the Governor and the Legislative Council shall observe, as far as practicable, the following Rules:

(1) All laws shall be styled "Ordinances" and the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor of the Colony of Singapore, with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council":

Provided that in the case of:

(a) any law made by the Governor under section 40 of the Order in Council, the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor of the Colony of Singapore in accordance with the provisions of section 40 of the Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946"; and

(b) in the case of any law having effect by virtue of a declaration made by the Governor under section 30 of the Order in Council, the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor in accordance with the provisions of section 30 of the Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946".

(2) All Ordinances shall be distinguished by titles, and shall be divided into successive sections consecutively numbered, and to every section there shall be annexed in the margin a short indication of its contents. The Ordinances enacted in each year shall be designated by consecutive numbers, commencing in each year with the number one.

===== Page 406 =====
(3) Each different matter shall be provided for by a different Ordinance without intermixing in one and the same Ordinance such things as have no proper relation to each other. No provision shall be inserted in any Ordinance which shall be foreign to what the title of such Ordinance imports; and no permanent provision shall be included in any temporary Ordinance.

15.—(1) Save as hereinafter mentioned, the Governor shall not, without having previously obtained instructions through a Secretary of State, assent to any Bill within any of the following classes, unless such Bill contain a clause suspending the operation thereof until the signification in the Colony of Our pleasure thereon, that is to say:

(1) Any Bill for the divorce of married persons:

(2) Any Bill whereby any grant of land or money, or other donation or gratuity, may be made to himself:

(3) Any Bill affecting the currency of the Colony, or relating to the issue of Bank Notes:

(4) Any Bill establishing any Banking Association, or amending or altering the constitution, powers, or privileges of any Banking Association:

(5) Any Bill imposing differential duties:

(6) Any Bill the provisions of which shall appear inconsistent with obligations imposed upon Us by Treaty:

(7) Any Bill interfering with the discipline or control of Our Forces by land or sea or air:

(8) Any Bill relating to questions of defence, or any matter affecting naval, military, or air forces or volunteer corps or the control of aerial navigation or aircraft or the transport or means of communication of naval, military, or air forces:

(9) Any Bill of an extraordinary nature and importance whereby Our Prerogative, or the rights and property of Our subjects not residing in the Colony, or the trade, transport or communications of any part of Our dominions, may be prejudiced:

(10) Any Bill containing any provisions prohibiting regulating or licensing the import or export of goods, or imposing or varying any customs, excise or export duty, tariff, levy or cess, or allowing any discount rebate or drawback from any such duty, tariff, levy or cess, or containing any other provision (whether of a similar nature to the foregoing or not), whereby the trade or commerce of the Malayan Union might be prejudicially affected, unless the Governor of the Malayan Union, having previously been informed of the provision shall have signified that he does not object thereto:

(11) Any Bill whereby persons of any racial, religious or other community are made liable to any disabilities or restrictions to which persons of other such communities are not also subjected or made liable, or are granted advantages not extended to persons of other such communities:

===== Page 407 =====
(12) Any Bill the principle of which has evoked serious opposition by any racial, religious, or other community and which in the opinion of the Governor is likely to involve oppression or unfairness to any such community:

(13) Any Bill containing provisions to which Our assent has been once refused, or which have been disallowed by Us:

Provided that the Governor may assent in Our name to any Bill falling within any of the classes described in this sub-clause (except a Bill falling within any class mentioned in paragraph (6) or (10) of this sub-clause) if he shall have satisfied himself that an urgent necessity exists requiring that such Bill be brought into immediate operation; but, in any such case, he shall, at the earliest opportunity, transmit to Us any Bill to which he shall have assented, together with his reasons for so assenting.

(2) The Governor shall not, without previously having obtained instructions from a Secretary of State, permit to be introduced or put into operation by subordinate legislation or executive action any such provision as is mentioned in paragraph (10) of sub-clause (1) of this clause unless the Governor of the Malayan Union, having previously been informed of the provision, shall have signified that he does not object thereto.

Private Bills.

16.—(1) Every Bill (not being a Government measure) intended to affect or benefit some particular person, association, or corporate body, shall contain a clause saving the right of Us, Our Heirs and Successors, all bodies politic and corporate, and all others, except such as are mentioned in the Bill and those claiming by, from or under them.

(2) No such Bill shall be introduced into the Legislative Council until due notice has been given by not less than three successive publications of the Bill in the Gazette of the Colony, and the Governor shall not assent thereto in Our Name unless it has been so published. A certificate under the hand of the Governor signifying that such publication has been made shall be transmitted to Us with the Bill or Ordinance.

Laws made by the Governor.

17. The provision of Clauses 15 and 16 shall apply (mutatis mutandis) to the making of any law by the Governor as they apply to a Bill requiring the assent of the Governor.

Ordinances to be sent through Secretary of State.

18. When any Ordinance shall have been enacted, the Governor shall forthwith transmit to Us, through a Secretary of State, for the significance of Our pleasure, a transcript in duplicate of the Ordinance duly authenticated under the Public Seal of the Colony and by his own signature, together with an explanation of the reasons and occasion for the enactment of the Ordinance.

Ordinances to be published.

19. As soon as practicable after the commencement of each year, the Governor shall cause a complete collection of all Ordinances enacted during the preceding year to be published for general information.

Appointments to be during pleasure.

20. Every appointment by the Governor of any person to any Office or employment shall, unless otherwise provided by law, be expressed to be during pleasure only.

Regulations of power of pardon in capital cases.

21.—(1) Whenever any offender shall have been condemned by sentence of any civil Court in the Colony to suffer death, the Governor shall call upon the Judge who presided at the trial to make to him a written report of the case of such offender, and shall cause such report to be taken into consideration at a meeting of the Executive Council, and

===== Page 408 =====
He may cause the said Judge to be specially summoned to attend at such meeting and to produce his notes thereat. The Governor shall not pardon or reprieve any such offender unless it shall appear to him expedient so to do, upon receiving the advice of the Executive Council thereon; but in all such cases he is to decide either to extend or to withhold a pardon or reprieve, according to his own deliberate judgment, whether the Members of the Executive Council concur therein or otherwise, entering nevertheless, in the Minutes of the Executive Council, his reasons at length, in case he should decide any such question in opposition to the judgment of the majority of the Members thereof.

(2) Until the Executive Council shall be constituted, references in this clause to the Executive Council shall be construed as references to the Advisory Council.

22. The Governor shall forward to Us, each year, through a Secretary of State, the annual book of returns commonly called the Blue Book, relating to Revenue and Expenditure, Public Works, Legislation, Civil Establishments, Pensions, Population, Schools, Course of Exchange, Imports and Exports, Agricultural Produce, Manufactures, and other matters in the said Blue Book more particularly specified with reference to the state and condition of the Colony.

23. Except in circumstances in which he is not regarded as absent from the Colony for the purposes of the Order in Council, the Governor shall not quit the Colony without having first obtained leave from Us for so doing through a Secretary of State.

24. (1) In these Our Instructions, unless inconsistent with the context:

“the appointed day” has the same meaning as in the Order in Council;

“the Executive Council”, “the Legislative Council” and “the Advisory Council” mean the Executive Council, the Legislative Council and the Advisory Council respectively of the Colony of Singapore constituted under and by virtue of the Order in Council;

“the Governor” includes every person for the time being administering the Government of the Colony; and “Secretary of State” means one of Our Principal Secretaries of State.

(2) For the purposes of these Our Instructions, a person shall not be deemed to hold an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony by reason only that he is in receipt of a pension or other like allowance in respect of service under the Crown.

If it shall be declared by any law for the time being in force in the Colony that an office shall not be an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony for all or any of the purposes of these Our Instructions, these Instructions shall have effect accordingly as if such law were enacted therein.

Given at Our Court at Saint James’s, this 27th day of March, 1946, in the Tenth year of Our Reign.

Printed by HIS MAJESTY’S STATIONERY OFFICE PRESS.
Drury Lane, W.C.2.

===== Page 409 =====
406

===== Page 410 =====
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE
The 27th day of March, 1946

Present
THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL

WHEREAS there was this day read at the Board a letter to the Lord President of the Council from the Right Honourable George Henry Hall, one of His Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, transmitting the Draft of Instructions to be given to the Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Colony of Singapore:

His Majesty, having taken the same into consideration, was pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council, to approve thereof, and to order, as it is hereby ordered, that the Right Honourable George Henry Hall, one of His Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, do prepare the said Instructions (which are hereunto annexed) for His Majesty's Royal Signature.

===== Page 411 =====
INSTRUCTIONS to Our Governor and Commander-in-Chief in and over Our Colony of Singapore, or to any other officer for the time being administering the Government of Our said Colony.

RECITES ORDER in Council.

WHEREAS by the Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946 (hereinafter called "the Order in Council") We have ordered and declared that as from the appointed day there shall be a Governor and Commander-in-Chief (in the Order in Council and hereinafter called "the Governor") in and over Our Colony of Singapore (in the Order in Council and hereinafter called "the Colony"):

AND WHEREAS We have by the Order in Council empowered and commanded the Governor to do all things that belong to his said office in accordance with the Order in Council and such Commission as may be issued to him under Our Sign Manual and Signet and according to such Instructions as may from time to time be given to him under Our Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, and such Orders in Council and other laws as may from time to time be in force in the Colony:

AND WHEREAS We are minded to issue these Our Instructions under Our Sign Manual and Signet for the guidance of the Governor and any other Officer who may administer the Government of the Colony:

NOW, THEREFORE, as from the appointed day, We do hereby direct and enjoin and declare Our Will and pleasure as follows:

Governor to administer oaths.

1. The Governor may, whenever he thinks fit, require any person in the public service of the Colony to take the Oath of Allegiance in the form prescribed by the Order in Council, together with such other oath or oaths as may from time to time be prescribed by any laws in force in the Colony. The Governor is to administer such oaths or cause them to be administered by some public officer of the Colony.

Instructions to be observed by Deputy.

2. Whenever there is a subsisting appointment of a Deputy to the Governor under the Order in Council, these Instructions, so far as they apply to any matter or thing to be done, or any powers or functions to be exercised or performed by such Deputy, shall be deemed to be addressed to and shall be observed by such Deputy.

Members of Executive Council.

3. The Executive Council of the Colony shall consist of the Governor as Chairman, four ex officio members, that is to say the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary and the President of the Municipal Commissioners, Singapore, together with two members (hereinafter called Official Members) holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony and four members (hereinafter called Unofficial Members) not holding such office to be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of instructions from Us through a Secretary of State.

===== Page 412 =====
4.—(1) Subject to the provisions of the Order in Council, every Official or Unofficial Member of the Executive Council shall hold his seat in Council during Our pleasure, and, subject thereto, for three years from the date of the Instrument by which he is appointed, or until such earlier date as may be provided by that Instrument or upon which his seat shall become vacant under the provisions of these Instructions.

If any person is appointed to be a Temporary Member of the Council and his temporary appointment is immediately followed by his definitive appointment, the said period of three years shall be reckoned from the date of the Instrument by which he is temporarily appointed.

(2) The seat of a Member of the Executive Council shall become vacant—
(a) upon his death; or
(b) if, being an Official Member, he shall cease to hold office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony; or
(c) if, being an Unofficial Member, he shall be appointed permanently to any such office; or
(d) if he shall by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor, resign his seat on the Executive Council; or
(e) if he shall be absent from the Colony without written permission from the Governor:

Provided that a member shall not be deemed to be absent from the Colony for the purposes of this paragraph by reason only of absence in the Malayan Union for a period not exceeding one month.

(3) Any person vacating a seat as a Member of the Executive Council may, if qualified, be again appointed from time to time.

(4) If an Unofficial Member be appointed temporarily to any office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony or to act in any such office, he shall not sit as an Unofficial Member of the Executive Council so long as he continues to hold or act in that office.

(5) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, suspend any Official or Unofficial Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the Executive Council. Every such suspension shall forthwith be reported by the Governor to Us through a Secretary of State and shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal, or by Us through a Secretary of State, or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the Executive Council.

(6) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Official or Unofficial Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council, and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared in manner aforesaid to be again capable of discharging his said functions.

5.—(1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council by reason of the fact that—
(a) an ex officio or Official Member is administering the Government of the Colony; or
(b) one person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the four officers specified in Clause 3 of these Instructions; or

===== Page 413 =====
(c) No person is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or

(d) a Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or

(e) the seat of a Member is vacant for any cause; or

(f) a Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in these Instructions, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or

(g) a Member is absent from the Colony; or

(h) an Unofficial Member has been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony or to act in any such office;

a person may be appointed a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) The said person shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal and—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as ex officio or Official Members, shall be a person holding office or emolument under the Crown in the Colony; and

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as Unofficial Members, shall be a person not holding any such office.

(3) Every person so appointed shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of Members sitting in the Executive Council as ex officio Members or as Official Members, an Official Member;

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as Unofficial Members, an Unofficial Member; and, subject to the provisions of this clause, the provisions of Clause 4 of these Instructions shall apply accordingly:

Provided that, in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed shall not be regarded as an Official Member in computing the number of such Members for purposes of Clause 3 of these Instructions.

(4) The Governor shall forthwith report every such temporary appointment to Us through a Secretary of State. Any such appointment may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be disallowed by Us through a Secretary of State or revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment under this clause shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of disallowance by Us or of revocation by the Governor, or on supersession of the appointment by the definitive appointment of a person to fill the vacancy, or when the vacancy shall otherwise cease to exist.

===== Page 414 =====
6. The Members of the Executive Council shall take precedence as we may specially assign and, in the absence of such assignment, as follows:

First, the ex officio Members in the order in which they are specified in Clause 3 of these Instructions;

Secondly, the Official Members according to the priority of their appointments as Official Members, or, if appointed on the same day, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor;

Thirdly, the Official Members temporarily appointed under Clause 5 in such order as may be assigned by the Governor;

Fourthly, the Unofficial Members in order according to the dates when they were first appointed to be Members, or Temporary Members as the case may be, of the Executive Council, and, in the case of more than one appointment on the same day, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor or, in the absence of such assignment, according to the alphabetical order of their surnames:

Provided that, where a Member is re-appointed to fill a vacancy caused by the termination of his own term of office, the date from which he has been continuously a Member of the Council (any interval between such termination and re-appointment being disregarded) shall be regarded as the date of his appointment for the purpose of this clause.

7. (1) The Executive Council shall not be summoned except by the authority of the Governor.

(2) The Executive Council shall not be disqualified for the transaction of business by reason of any vacancy among the Members; but no business except that of adjournment shall be transacted if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than three Members present besides the Governor or Member presiding.

8. The Governor shall, so far as is practicable, attend and preside at all meetings of the Executive Council, and, in his absence, such Member as the Governor may appoint or, in the absence of such Member or if no Member be so appointed, the Senior Member of the Council actually present shall preside.

9. The Governor shall consult with the Executive Council in the execution of all powers and authorities conferred upon him, except in cases—

(a) which are of such a nature that, in his judgment, Our service would sustain material prejudice by consulting the Council thereupon; or

(b) in which the matters to be decided shall be too unimportant to require their advice; or

(c) in which the matters are too urgent to admit of their advice being given by the time within which it may be necessary for him to act.

In every case falling within paragraph (c) of this clause, he shall, as soon as practicable, communicate to the Council the measures which he shall have adopted with the reasons therefor.

===== Page 415 =====
Governor to propose questions.

10. The Governor shall alone be entitled to submit questions to the Executive Council; but if the Governor declines to submit any question to the Council when requested in writing by any Member so to do, it shall be competent to such Member to require that there be recorded upon the Minutes his written application together with the answer returned by the Governor thereto.

Governor may act in opposition to Executive Council.

11. The Governor may act in opposition to the advice given to him by Members of the Executive Council, if in any case it shall in his judgment be right so to do; but in any such case he shall, at the first convenient opportunity, fully report the matter to Us through a Secretary of State with the reasons for his action. In every such case it shall be competent to any Member of the Council to require that there be recorded upon the Minutes any advice or opinion that he may give upon the question and the grounds therefor.

Governor to communicate Instructions to Executive Council.

12. The Governor shall forthwith communicate to the Executive Council these Our Instructions and all such others as, from time to time, We may direct or he shall find convenient for Our service to impart to them.

Minutes of the Executive and Legislative Councils.

13. Minutes shall be kept of all the proceedings of the Executive Council and of the Legislative Council. At every meeting of each Council the Minutes of the last preceding meeting shall be confirmed, with or without amendment as the case may require, before proceeding to the despatch of any other business. Twice in each year a full transcript of all Minutes of each Council for the preceding half-year shall be transmitted to Us through a Secretary of State.

Rules for the enactment of Ordinances.

14. In the making of laws the Governor and the Legislative Council shall observe, as far as practicable, the following Rules:

(1) All laws shall be styled "Ordinances" and the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor of the Colony of Singapore, with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council":

Provided that in the case of:

(a) any law made by the Governor under section 40 of the Order in Council, the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor of the Colony of Singapore in accordance with the provisions of section 40 of the Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946"; and

(b) in the case of any law having effect by virtue of a declaration made by the Governor under section 30 of the Order in Council, the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor in accordance with the provisions of section 30 of the Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946".

(2) All Ordinances shall be distinguished by titles, and shall be divided into successive sections consecutively numbered, and to every section there shall be annexed in the margin a short indication of its contents. The Ordinances enacted in each year shall be designated by consecutive numbers, commencing in each year with the number one.

===== Page 416 =====
(3) Each different matter shall be provided for by a different Ordinance without intermixing in one and the same Ordinance such things as have no proper relation to each other. No provision shall be inserted in any Ordinance which shall be foreign to what the title of such Ordinance imports; and no permanent provision shall be included in any temporary Ordinance.

15.—(1) Save as hereinafter mentioned, the Governor shall not, without having previously obtained instructions through a Secretary of State, assent to any Bill within any of the following classes, unless such Bill contain a clause suspending the operation thereof until the signification in the Colony of Our pleasure thereon, that is to say:

(1) Any Bill for the divorce of married persons;

(2) Any Bill whereby any grant of land or money, or other donation or gratuity, may be made to himself;

(3) Any Bill affecting the currency of the Colony, or relating to the issue of Bank Notes;

(4) Any Bill establishing any Banking Association, or amending or altering the constitution, powers, or privileges of any Banking Association;

(5) Any Bill imposing differential duties;

(6) Any Bill the provisions of which shall appear inconsistent with obligations imposed upon Us by Treaty;

(7) Any Bill interfering with the discipline or control of Our Forces by land or sea or air;

(8) Any Bill relating to questions of defence, or any matter affecting naval, military, or air forces or volunteer corps or the control of aerial navigation or aircraft or the transport or means of communication of naval, military, or air forces;

(9) Any Bill of an extraordinary nature and importance whereby Our Prerogative, or the rights and property of Our subjects not residing in the Colony, or the trade, transport or communications of any part of Our dominions, may be prejudiced;

(10) Any Bill containing any provisions prohibiting, regulating, or licensing the import or export of goods, or imposing or varying any customs, excise or export duty, tariff, levy or cess, or allowing any discount, rebate or drawback from any such duty, tariff, levy or cess, or containing any other provision (whether of a similar nature to the foregoing or not), whereby the trade or commerce of the Malayan Union might be prejudicially affected, unless the Governor of the Malayan Union, having previously been informed of the provision shall have signified that he does not object thereto;

(11) Any Bill whereby persons of any racial, religious or other community are made liable to any disabilities or restrictions to which persons of other such communities are not also subjected or made liable, or are granted advantages not extended to persons of other such communities.

===== Page 417 =====
(12) Any Bill the principle of which has evoked serious opposition by any racial, religious, or other community and which in the opinion of the Governor is likely to involve oppression or unfairness to any such community:

(13) Any Bill containing provisions to which Our assent has been once refused, or which have been disallowed by Us:

Provided that the Governor may assent in Our name to any Bill falling within any of the classes described in this sub-clause (except a Bill falling within any class mentioned in paragraph (6) or (10) of this sub-clause) if he shall have satisfied himself that an urgent necessity exists requiring that such Bill be brought into immediate operation; but, in any such case, he shall, at the earliest opportunity, transmit to Us any Bill to which he shall have assented, together with his reasons for so assenting.

(2) The Governor shall not, without previously having obtained instructions from a Secretary of State, permit to be introduced or put into operation by subordinate legislation or executive action any such provision as is mentioned in paragraph (10) of sub-clause (1) of this clause unless the Governor of the Malayan Union, having previously been informed of the provision, shall have signified that he does not object thereto.

Private Bills.

16.—(1) Every Bill (not being a Government measure) intended to affect or benefit some particular person, association, or corporate body, shall contain a clause saving the right of Us, Our Heirs and Successors, all bodies politic and corporate, and all others, except such as are mentioned in the Bill and those claiming by, from or under them.

(2) No such Bill shall be introduced into the Legislative Council until due notice has been given by not less than three successive publications of the Bill in the Gazette of the Colony, and the Governor shall not assent thereto in Our Name unless it has been so published. A certificate under the hand of the Governor signifying that such publication has been made shall be transmitted to Us with the Bill or Ordinance.

Laws made by the Governor.

17. The provisions of Clauses 15 and 16 shall apply (mutatis mutandis) to the making of any law by the Governor as they apply to a Bill requiring the assent of the Governor.

Ordinances to be sent through Secretary of State.

18. When any Ordinance shall have been enacted, the Governor shall forthwith transmit to Us, through a Secretary of State, for the signification of Our pleasure, a transcript in duplicate of the Ordinance duly authenticated under the Public Seal of the Colony and by his own signature, together with an explanation of the reasons and occasion for the enactment of the Ordinance.

Ordinances to be published.

19. As soon as practicable after the commencement of each year, the Governor shall cause a complete collection of all Ordinances enacted during the preceding year to be published for general information.

Appointments to be during pleasure.

20. Every appointment by the Governor of any person to any Office or employment shall, unless otherwise provided by law, be expressed to be during pleasure only.

Regulations of power of pardon in capital cases.

21.—(1) Whenever any offender shall have been condemned by sentence of any civil Court in the Colony to suffer death, the Governor shall call upon the Judge who presided at the trial to make to him a written report of the case of such offender, and shall cause such report to be taken into consideration at a meeting of the Executive Council, and

===== Page 418 =====
He may cause the said Judge to be specially summoned to attend at such meeting and to produce his notes thereat. The Governor shall not pardon or reprieve any such offender unless it shall appear to him expedient so to do, upon receiving the advice of the Executive Council thereon; but in all such cases he is to decide either to extend or to withhold a pardon or reprieve, according to his own deliberate judgment, whether the Members of the Executive Council concur therein or otherwise, entering nevertheless, in the Minutes of the Executive Council, his reasons at length, in case he should decide any such question in opposition to the judgment of the majority of the Members thereof.

(2) Until the Executive Council shall be constituted, references in this clause to the Executive Council shall be construed as references to the Advisory Council.

22. The Governor shall forward to Us, each year, through a Secretary of State, the annual book of returns commonly called the Blue Book, relating to Revenue and Expenditure, Public Works, Legislation, Civil Establishments, Pensions, Population, Schools, Course of Exchange, Imports and Exports, Agricultural Produce, Manufactures, and other matters in the said Blue Book more particularly specified with reference to the state and condition of the Colony.

23. Except in circumstances in which he is not regarded as absent from the Colony for the purposes of the Order in Council, the Governor shall not quit the Colony without having first obtained leave from Us for so doing through a Secretary of State.

24. (1) In these Our Instructions, unless inconsistent with the context:

“the appointed day” has the same meaning as in the Order in Council;

“the Executive Council”, “the Legislative Council” and “the Advisory Council” mean the Executive Council, the Legislative Council and the Advisory Council respectively of the Colony of Singapore constituted under and by virtue of the Order in Council;

“the Governor” includes every person for the time being administering the Government of the Colony; and “Secretary of State” means one of Our Principal Secretaries of State.

(2) For the purposes of these Our Instructions, a person shall not be deemed to hold an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony by reason only that he is in receipt of a pension or other like allowance in respect of service under the Crown.

If it shall be declared by any law for the time being in force in the Colony that an office shall not be an office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony for all or any of the purposes of these Our Instructions, these Instructions shall have effect accordingly as if such law were enacted therein.

Given at Our Court at Saint James's, this 27th day of March, 1946, in the Tenth year of Our Reign.

Printed by His Majesty's Stationery Office Press,
Drury Lane, W.C.2.

===== Page 419 =====
1416

===== Page 420 =====
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE
The 27th day of March, 1946

Present

THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL.

WHEREAS by the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890, it was, amongst other things, enacted that it should be lawful for His Majesty the King to hold, exercise and enjoy any jurisdiction which His Majesty then had or might at any time thereafter have within a foreign country in the same and as ample a manner as if His Majesty had acquired that jurisdiction by the cession or conquest of territory:

AND WHEREAS His Majesty has full power and jurisdiction within the Malay States of Johore, Kedah, Kelantan, Negri Sembilan, Pahang, Perak, Perlis, Selangor and Trengganu (hereinafter referred to together as "the Malay States"):

AND WHEREAS, by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Act, 1946 (hereinafter called "the Act of 1946") it is, amongst other things, enacted that on such day as His Majesty may by Order in Council appoint (in that Act and in this Order referred to as "the appointed day") the Straits Settlements Act, 1866, shall be repealed and the Straits Settlements, that is to say the settlements and dependencies mentioned in the Schedule to the Act of 1946 (which comprise, among other settlements and dependencies, the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang (including province Wellesley) and the dependencies of the said settlements) shall cease to be a single colony and that on and after the appointed day each of the said settlements and dependencies shall be divided into such territories as His Majesty may by Order in Council direct and that those territories shall be governed either singly or in conjunction with such other territories (whether falling within the Schedule to the Act of 1946 or not) as may be specified in such Order and that such Order in Council may contain such other and consequential provisions as are contained in this Order:

AND WHEREAS by the Act of 1946 it is further enacted that the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945, shall apply in relation to each of the territories into which the said Settlements and dependencies are divided by Order under this Act as if it were a British settlement as so defined:

AND WHEREAS by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Order in Council, 1946, it is provided that the appointed day shall be the first day of April, 1946:

AND WHEREAS it is expedient to make provision for the administration, on and after the appointed day, of the Malay States in conjunction with the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang and the dependencies of the said Settlements:

===== Page 421 =====
NOW THEREFORE, His Majesty, by virtue and in exercise of the powers vested by the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890, and by the Act of 1946 and the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945, or otherwise in His Majesty vested, is pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council to order, and it is hereby ordered, as follows:

PART I.

PRELIMINARY.

Short title and commencement.

1.—(1) This Order may be cited as the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946, and, except as to section 13 and Parts IV, V, VI, VII and VIII, shall come into operation on the appointed day.

(2) Section 13 and Parts IV, V, VI, VII and VIII of this Order shall come into operation on such day, or days respectively, within a period of six months from the appointed day, as may be fixed by the Governor by proclamation in the Gazette and the Governor may fix different days for different purposes and different provisions of that section and those Parts:

Provided that the said period of six months may be extended by the Governor, by Proclamation in the Gazette, for such further period as may be approved by a Secretary of State.

Interpretation.

2.—(1) In this Order, unless the context otherwise requires—

"the Chief Justice" means the Chief Justice of the Union;

"the existing laws" means the common law, doctrines of equity and all Acts of Parliament, Orders in Council, Enactments of the Legislature of the Federated Malay States, Enactments of the Legislature of any Malay State, Ordinances of the Legislature of the Colony of the Straits Settlements, Proclamations issued by the High Commissioner of the Malay States or by the Ruler of any of the Malay States, or by the Governor of the Straits Settlements or by, or under the authority of, the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia (other than the Proclamations establishing the British Military Administration and delegating powers thereunder) and all Rules, Regulations and By-laws made thereunder and all other enactments and instruments having the force of law in the Union or in any part thereof immediately prior to the appointed day, whether the same were administered by the British Military Administration or not;

"the Gazette" means the official Gazette of the Union;

"the Governor" means the Governor and Commander-in-Chief for the time being of the Union and includes any officer for the time being administering the Government thereof, and, to the extent that a Deputy to the Governor is authorised to act, that Deputy;

"the Governor in Council" means the Governor acting after consultation with, but not necessarily in accordance with the advice of, the Executive Council of the Union nor necessarily in such Council assembled; and, until Section 13 of this Order is in operation, means the Governor;

"Malayan Union citizen" means a citizen of the Union within the meaning of any Order in Council or other enactment providing for Malayan Union Citizenship;

"meeting" means any sitting or sittings of a Council constituted under this Order commencing when the Council first meets after being

===== Page 422 =====
summoned at any time and terminating when the Council is adjourned sine die or at the conclusion of a session without adjournment;

“prescribed” means prescribed by any law made under this Order or by regulation made by the Governor under section 96;

“property” includes all property movable or immovable and all estates, interests, easements and rights, whether equitable or legal, in, to or out of property, and things in action and rights to revenue, taxes, duties and other dues; and “vested” in relation to property includes rights to property which are future or contingent and rights in reversion and remainder;

“the Public Seal” means the public seal of the Union and includes the official stamp mentioned in section 9 of this Order;

“session” means the sittings of any Council constituted under this Order commencing when the Council first meets after being so constituted, or after its prorogation or dissolution at any time, and terminating when the Council is prorogued or is dissolved without having been prorogued;

“the settlements” means the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang;

“the Settlement of Malacca” means the Town and Fort and Province of Malacca and all islands and places heretofore known or administered as part of the Settlement of Malacca, and the territorial waters adjacent thereto;

“the settlement of Penang” means Georgetown and the Island of Penang (or Prince of Wales’ Island) Province Wellesley and all islands and places heretofore known or administered as part of the Settlement of Penang, and the territorial waters adjacent thereto;

“Sultan” includes the Raja of Perlis and the Yang di Pertuan Besar of Negri Sembilan, and, during a Regency in any of the Malay States, means the Regent, or if there be a Council of Regency, the Member of that Council to whom is assigned the function in connection with which the term is used;

“the Supreme Court” means the Supreme Court of the Union;

“the Union” means the Malayan Union constituted by section 3 of this Order.

(2) For the purposes of this Order, when reference is made to a Sultan of any of the Malay States or to any public officer by the term designating his office, such reference means the Sultan for the time being of the State concerned, or the officer for the time being lawfully discharging the functions of that office, as the case may be.

(3) For the purposes of this Order, a person shall not be deemed to hold an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union by reason only that he is in receipt of a pension or other like allowance in respect of service under the Crown.

If it shall be declared by any law for the time being in force in the Union that an office shall not be an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union for all or any of the purposes of this Order, this Order shall have effect accordingly as if that law were enacted herein.

(4) The Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply for the interpretation of this Order as it applies for the interpretation of an Act of Parliament.

===== Page 423 =====
3. There shall be established a Union comprising the Malay States and the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang, to be governed and administered together and to be known as the Malayan Union.

PART II.

THE GOVERNOR AND EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.

Governor.

4. There shall be a Governor and Commander-in-Chief (hereinafter called "the Governor") in and over the Union, and appointments to the said office shall be made by Commission under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet.

Powers of Governor.

5. The Governor is hereby empowered and commanded to do all things that belong to his said office in accordance with this Order and such Commission as may be issued to him under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet and according to such Instructions as may from time to time be given to him under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet, or through a Secretary of State, and such Orders in Council and other laws as may from time to time be in force in the Union.

Publication of Governor's Commission and taking of oaths.

6. Every person appointed to fill the office of Governor shall, before entering on any of the duties of his office, cause the Commission appointing him to be Governor to be read and published at the seat of Government, in the presence of the Chief Justice or, in his absence, of some other Judge of the Supreme Court, and (if section 13 of this Order is in force) of such Members of the Executive Council of the Union as can conveniently attend; and shall take before them the Oath of Allegiance and the Oath for the due execution of the office of Governor in the forms set out in the First Schedule to this Order, which Oaths the Chief Justice or such other Judge as aforesaid shall administer.

Succession to Government.

7. (1) Whenever the office of Governor becomes vacant, or the Governor is absent from the Union, or the Governor is from any cause prevented from, or incapable of, performing the duties of his office, then such person as His Majesty may appoint under His Sign Manual and Signet or if there is no such person in the Union so appointed and capable of discharging the duties of administration, the senior Member of the Executive Council then in the Union and so capable, shall during His Majesty's pleasure, administer the Government of the Union, first taking, in manner in this Order prescribed, the oaths directed by this Order to be taken by the Governor. Thereupon such person or Member shall, subject, if he is so appointed as aforesaid, to the terms of his appointment, do, during His Majesty's pleasure, all things that belong to the Office of Governor as provided in this Order:

Provided that the Governor or any other person or Member as aforesaid shall not be regarded as absent from the Union or prevented from or incapable of performing the duties of his office for the purposes of this Order during his passage from one part of the Union to another or during a visit to the Colony of Singapore or when there is a subsisting appointment of a Deputy under the next succeeding section of this Order.

(2) Any such person as aforesaid shall not continue to administer the Government after the Governor or some other person having a prior right to administer the same has notified him that he is about to assume or resume the administration.

===== Page 424 =====
8. (1) Whenever the Governor has occasion to be absent from the seat of Government but not from the Union or to be absent from the Union for a period which he has reason to believe will be of short duration, or whenever by reason of illness which he has reason to believe will be of short duration he considers it desirable so to do, he may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint any person in the Union to be his Deputy during such absence or illness, and in that capacity to exercise and perform for and on behalf of the Governor during such absence or illness all such functions of the Governor as shall be specified in such Instrument.

(2) By the appointment of a Deputy as aforesaid the power and authority of the Governor shall not be abridged, altered, or in any way affected otherwise than as His Majesty may at any time hereafter think proper to direct, and every such Deputy shall conform to and observe all such instructions as the Governor shall from time to time address to him for his guidance.

(3) Any appointment under this section may at any time be revoked by the Governor or by a Secretary of State and, in case of absence as aforesaid, shall cease and determine upon the return of the Governor to the seat of Government or to the Union, as the case may be.

9. The Governor shall keep and use the Public Seal of the Union for sealing all things whatsoever that shall pass the said Seal. Until a Public Seal shall be provided for the Union, an official stamp bearing the inscription "Malayan Union. Public Seal" may be used as the Public Seal.

10. Subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force in the Union and of any Instructions from time to time given to the Governor under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, the Governor, in His Majesty's name and on His Majesty's behalf, may make and execute, under the Public Seal, grants and dispositions of any lands within the Union which may be lawfully granted or disposed of by His Majesty.

11. Subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force in the Union and to any Instructions from time to time given to him by His Majesty through a Secretary of State, the Governor for cause shown to his satisfaction, may dismiss or suspend from the exercise of his office any person holding any public office within the Union, or may take such other disciplinary action as may seem to him desirable.

12. When any offence has been committed for which the offender may be tried within the Union, the Governor may, as he shall see occasion, in His Majesty's name and on His Majesty's behalf, grant a pardon to any accomplice in such offence who shall give such information as shall lead to the conviction of the principal offender, or any one of such offenders if more than one; and further may grant to any offender convicted of any such offence in any Court within the Union, a pardon, either free or subject to lawful conditions, or any respite, either indefinite or for such period as the Governor may think fit, of the execution of any sentence passed on such offender, and may remit the whole or any part of such sentence or of any penalties or forfeitures otherwise due to His Majesty.

13. There shall be an Executive Council for the Union and the said Council shall consist of such persons as His Majesty shall direct by

===== Page 425 =====
Instructions under His Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, and all such persons shall hold their places in the Executive Council during His Majesty's pleasure and, subject thereto, for such period and upon such conditions as may be specified in any such Instructions.

PART III.

COURTS.

14.—(1) There shall be in and for the Union a Court of unlimited civil and criminal jurisdiction to be called the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court shall be a Court of Record and may consist of a High Court and a Court of Appeal.

(2) There shall be a Chief Justice appointed by His Majesty by Letters Patent under the Great Seal of the Realm, or by the Governor by Letters Patent under the Public Seal in accordance with such instructions as he may receive from His Majesty through a Secretary of State, and as many Judges of the Supreme Court, appointed similarly or in manner prescribed, as may from time to time be required. The Chief Justice and Judges of the Supreme Court shall hold office during His Majesty's pleasure.

(3) The constitution, powers and procedure of the Supreme Court and provisions relating to appeals therefrom to His Majesty in Council and provisions relating to the qualifications, order of precedence, duties and powers of Judges, and appointment of temporary Judges, may, subject to the provisions of this Order, be prescribed by laws made under this Order.

15.—(1) Courts subordinate to the Supreme Court and Courts of special jurisdiction may be constituted by laws made under this Order.

(2) Provision may be made by such laws for the hearing and determining of appeals from any such Court by the Supreme Court or otherwise.

PART IV.

LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.

16.—(1) There shall be a Legislative Council in and for the Union constituted in accordance with the provisions of this Order.

(2) The Council shall consist of the Governor as President, three ex officio Members, and such Official Members, not exceeding eighteen and such Unofficial Members, not exceeding twenty-one, as His Majesty shall direct by Instructions under His Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State.

17. The ex officio Members shall be the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General and the Financial Secretary.

18. The Official Members shall be persons holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, and shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of His Majesty's instructions through a Secretary of State.

19. The Unofficial Members shall be Malayan Union citizens of the age of twenty-one years or upwards not holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, who, the Governor is satisfied, are able

===== Page 426 =====
To speak and (unless incapacitated by blindness or other physical cause) to read and write the English language with a degree of proficiency sufficient to enable them to take an active part in the proceedings of the Council. Unofficial Members shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of His Majesty's Instructions through a Secretary of State:

Provided that the Governor may, for cause shown to his satisfaction, appoint a British subject who is not a Malayan Union citizen to be an Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council.

20. No person shall be capable of being appointed an Official or Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council or, having been appointed, shall sit and vote therein, who at the time of appointment—

(1) is a person found or declared to be of unsound mind under any law in force in the Union; or

(2) has, in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection, been sentenced to death or to imprisonment (by whatever name called) for a term exceeding six months and has not either suffered the punishment to which he was sentenced or such other punishment as may by competent authority have been substituted therefor or received a free pardon; or

(3) is an undischarged bankrupt; or

(4) is a party to, or a member of a firm or a director or manager of a company which is a party to, any subsisting contract with the Government of the Union, for or on account of the public service, or is otherwise to his knowledge interested in any such contract, and shall not have disclosed to the Governor the nature of such contract and his interest, or the interest of any such firm or company, therein.

21.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, every Official Member or Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council shall hold his seat in the Legislative Council during His Majesty's pleasure and, subject thereto, shall cease to be a Member at the end of three years from the date of the Instrument by which he is appointed, or at such earlier date as may be provided by such Instrument, or previously if his seat shall become vacant under the provisions of this Order.

(2) If a person is appointed a Temporary Member of the Legislative Council in accordance with the provisions of Section 22 of this Order and such appointment is immediately followed by his definitive appointment as a Member, the said period of three years shall be reckoned from the date of his appointment as a Temporary Member.

(3) The seat of a Member of the Legislative Council (other than an ex officio Member) shall become vacant—

(a) upon his death; or

(b) if he shall, without the leave of the Governor, be absent from two consecutive meetings of the Council; or

(c) if he shall cease to be a Malayan Union citizen, or, if appointed under the proviso to section 19, a British subject, or shall take any oath, or make any declaration or acknowledgment of allegiance, obedience or adherence to any foreign Power or State; or shall do, concur in or adopt any act done with the intention that he shall become a subject or citizen of any foreign Power or State; or

===== Page 427 =====
(d) if he shall be declared a bankrupt under any law in force in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection; or

(e) if in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection, he shall be sentenced to death, or imprisonment, by whatever name called, for a term exceeding six months; or

(f) if he shall be found or declared to be of unsound mind under any law in force in the Union; or

(g) if he shall, by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor resign his seat in the Council; or

(h) if, being an Official Member, he shall cease to hold office of emolument under the Crown in the Union; or

(i) if, being an Unofficial Member, he shall be appointed permanently to any such office; or

(j) if, being an Unofficial Member, he shall, without the approval of the Governor, become a party to, or if any firm in which he is a partner, or any company of which he is a director or manager, shall become a party to, or if he shall be otherwise interested in, any contract with the Government of the Union for or on account of the public service and shall not, before the making of the contract, have disclosed to the Governor the nature of such contract and his interest or the interest of any such firm or company therein.

(4) If an Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council shall be appointed temporarily to any office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, or shall be appointed to act in any such office, he shall not sit or vote in the Legislative Council so long as he continues to hold or to act in that office.

(5) Any person vacating a seat as a Member of the Legislative Council, may, if qualified, be again appointed as a Member from time to time.

(6) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Official Member or Unofficial Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council, and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared, in manner aforesaid, to be again capable of discharging his said functions.

(7) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, suspend any Official Member or Unofficial Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the Council. Every such suspension shall forthwith be reported by the Governor to His Majesty through a Secretary of State, and shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal or by His Majesty through a Secretary of State, or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the Legislative Council.

(8) All questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain an Official or Unofficial Member shall be referred to and decided by the Governor in Council whose decision shall be final and shall not be called in question in any Court in the Union.

22.—(1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Legislative Council as ex officio Members, or Official Members or Unofficial Members, by reason of the fact that—

(a) an ex officio Member is administering the Government of the Union; or

===== Page 428 =====
(b) One person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the three officers specified in section 17 of this Order; or
(c) No person is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or
(d) An Official Member is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or
(e) The seat of an Official or Unofficial Member is vacant for any cause other than a dissolution of the Council; or
(f) An Official or Unofficial Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in this Order, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or
(g) An Official or Unofficial Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or
(h) A Member is absent from the Union; or
(i) An Unofficial Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of his having been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union or to act in any such office;

the Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint a person to be a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) If the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Official Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as an Official Member; and if the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Unofficial Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as an Unofficial Member.

(3) Every person appointed to be a Temporary Member under this section shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Official Members, an Official Member;
(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Unofficial Members, an Unofficial Member;

and, subject to the provisions of this section, the provisions of section 21 of this Order shall apply accordingly:

Provided that, in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed shall not be regarded as an Official Member in computing the number of such Members for the purposes of sub-section (2) of section 16 of this Order.

(4) The Governor shall forthwith report every such temporary appointment to His Majesty through a Secretary of State. Any such appointment may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be disallowed by His Majesty through a Secretary of State or revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment under this section shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of disallowance by His Majesty or of revocation by the Governor, or on super-session of the appointment by the definitive appointment of a person to fill the vacancy, or when the vacancy shall otherwise cease to exist.

===== Page 429 =====
Summoning of public officers.

23. The Governor may summon to any meeting of the Legislative Council any person holding public office under the Crown in the Union, notwithstanding that such person may not be a Member of the Council, when, in the opinion of the Governor, the business before the Council renders the presence of such person desirable. Any person so summoned shall be entitled to take part in the proceedings of the Council relating to the business in respect of which he is summoned as if he were a Member of the Council, except that he shall not have the right to vote in the Council.

Governor to preside.

24. The Governor, if present, shall preside at meetings of the Council, and, in his absence, such Member as the Governor may in writing appoint or, in the absence of such Member, or if no Member be so appointed, the senior Member of Council actually present shall preside.

Quorum.

25. No business except that of adjournment shall be transacted by the Council if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than one quarter of the Members present besides the Governor or other Member presiding.

Precedence of Members.

26. After the Governor, the Members of the Council shall take precedence as His Majesty may specially assign or, if precedence be not so assigned, as follows:

First, the ex officio Members in the order in which they are mentioned in section 17 of this Order;

Secondly, the Official Members appointed under section 18 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments as such, or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Thirdly, Official Members temporarily appointed under section 22 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Fourthly, the Unofficial Members appointed under section 19 of this Order according to the priority of their appointments as such, or if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Fifthly, the Unofficial Members temporarily appointed under section 22 of this Order according to the priority of their appointments or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Provided that when a Member is re-appointed to fill a vacancy caused by the termination of his own term of office the date from which he has been continuously a Member of the Council (any interval between such termination and re-appointment being disregarded) shall be regarded as the date of his appointment for the purposes of this section.

PART V.

LEGISLATION AND PROCEDURE IN LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.

Power to make laws.

27. Subject to the provisions of this Order, it shall be lawful for the Governor, with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council, to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Union.

Voting.

28. Save as otherwise provided in this Order, all questions proposed for decision in the Council shall be determined by a majority of the

===== Page 430 =====
Votes of the Members present and voting. The Governor shall not have an original vote, but, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, he shall have a casting vote. In the absence of the Governor, the Member presiding shall have an original vote and also, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, a casting vote.

29. (1) If the Governor shall consider that it is expedient in the interests of public order, public faith or good government that any Bill introduced, or any motion proposed for decision in the Council shall have effect, then if the Council fail to pass such a Bill or motion, within such time and in such form as the Governor may think reasonable and expedient, the Governor, at any time in his discretion, may, notwithstanding any provisions of this Order or of any Standing Rules or Orders of the Council, declare that such Bill or motion shall have effect as if it had been passed by the Council, either in the form in which it was so introduced or proposed or with such amendments as the Governor shall think fit which have been moved or proposed in the Council or in any Committee thereof; and thereupon the said Bill or motion shall have effect as if it had been so passed, and, in the case of any such Bill, the provisions of this Order relating to assent to Bills and disallowance of laws shall apply accordingly.

(2) In this section the expressions "public order, public faith or good government" shall, without prejudice to their generality, include the following:

(a) the responsibility of the Union as a component part of the British Empire including foreign relations and relations with other parts of the British Empire;

(b) all questions relating to defence, including provision, construction, maintenance and use of defence works, areas and communications;

(c) subjects upon which, in the opinion of the Governor or of a Secretary of State, it is necessary to secure uniformity in legislation between the Union and the Colony of Singapore; and

(d) all matters pertaining to the creation or abolition of any public office and to the appointment, salary or other conditions of service of any public officer or officers.

(3) The Governor shall forthwith report to a Secretary of State every case in which he shall make any such declaration as is mentioned in sub-section (1) of this section and the reason therefor.

(4) If any Member of the Legislative Council objects to any declaration made under this section, he may, within seven days of the making thereof, submit to the Governor a statement in writing of his reasons for so objecting, and a copy of such statement shall, if furnished by such Member, be forwarded by the Governor as soon as practicable to a Secretary of State.

(5) Any such declaration other than a declaration relating to a Bill may be revoked by a Secretary of State, and the Governor shall notify such revocation in the Gazette; and from the date of such notification any motion which shall have had effect by virtue of the declaration revoked shall cease to have effect, and the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 38 of the Interpretation Act, 1889, shall apply to such revocation as they apply to the repeal of an Act of Parliament.

===== Page 431 =====
30.—(1) No Bill shall become a law until either the Governor shall assent thereto in His Majesty's name and on His Majesty's behalf, and shall sign the same in token of assent, or His Majesty shall give his assent thereto through a Secretary of State.

(2) When a Bill is presented to the Governor for his assent, he shall, according to his discretion, but subject to the provisions of this Order and of any Instructions addressed to him under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, declare that he assents or refuses to assent thereto, or that he reserves the Bill for the signification of His Majesty's pleasure.

(3) A law assented to by the Governor shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the date of such publication, or, if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment (including any enactment in force at the commencement of this Order) that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

(4) A Bill reserved for the signification of His Majesty's pleasure shall become a law so soon as His Majesty shall have given His assent thereto, through a Secretary of State, and the Governor shall have signified such assent by Proclamation in the Gazette. Every such law shall come into operation on the date of such Proclamation or, if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment (including any enactment in force at the commencement of this Order) that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

31.—(1) Any law to which the Governor shall have given his assent may be disallowed by His Majesty through a Secretary of State.

(2) Whenever any law has been disallowed by His Majesty, the Governor shall cause notice of such disallowance to be published in the Gazette.

(3) Every law so disallowed shall cease to have effect as soon as notice of such disallowance shall be published as aforesaid. Thereafter any enactment repealed or amended by such law shall have effect as if such law had not been made, but, save as aforesaid, the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 38 of the Interpretation Act, 1880, shall apply to such disallowance as they apply to the repeal of an Act of Parliament.

32. Subject to the provisions of this Order, the Governor and the Legislative Council shall, in the transaction of business and the passing of laws, conform as nearly as may be to the directions contained in any Instructions under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet which may from time to time be addressed to the Governor in that behalf.

33. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of such Instructions as aforesaid, the Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its own proceedings and the conduct of business and for the passing, intitulating and numbering of Bills, and for the presentation thereof to the Governor for his assent, but no such Rules or Orders shall have effect unless and until they have been approved by the Governor.

34. The official language of the Council shall be English.

35. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council, any Member may introduce any Bill or

===== Page 432 =====
Propose any motion for debate in, or may present any petition to, the Council, and the same shall be debated and disposed of according to the Standing Rules and Orders:

Provided that, except with the recommendation or consent of the Governor signified thereto, the Council shall not proceed upon any Bill, amendment, motion or petition, which, in the opinion of the Governor or of the presiding Member, would—

(a) dispose of, or charge any public revenue or public funds of the Union, or revoke or alter any disposition thereof or charge thereon, or impose, alter, or repeal any rate, tax or duty; or

(b) suspend the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council or any of them.

36.—(1) The sessions of the Legislative Council shall be held at such times and places as the Governor shall from time to time by Proclamation appoint.

(2) There shall be a session of the Council once at least in every year, so that a period of twelve months shall not intervene between the last sitting in one Session and the first sitting in the next Session.

37. The Governor may at any time, by Proclamation, prorogue the Legislative Council.

PART VI.

THE COUNCIL OF SULTANS.

38. There shall be established for the Union a Council to be called the Council of Sultans.

39.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order the Council of Sultans shall consist of the Governor as President and the following Members:

(1) His Highness the Sultan of Johore;
(2) His Highness the Sultan of Pahang;
(3) His Highness the Yang di peruan Besar of Negri Sembilan;
(4) His Highness the Sultan of Perak;
(5) His Highness the Sultan of Selangor;
(6) His Highness the Sultan of Kedah;
(7) His Highness the Raja of Perlis;
(8) His Highness the Sultan of Kelantan;
(9) His Highness the Sultan of Trengganu;
(10) The Chief Secretary;
(11) The Attorney-General; and
(12) The Financial Secretary.

(2) During a Regency in any of the Malay States, the Regent or, if there be a Council of Regency, such Member of that Council as the Council of Regency may assign, shall be a Member of the Council of Sultans in the place of the Sultan of the State.

40.—(1) The functions of the Council of Sultans shall be—

(a) to consider legislation, relating solely to matters of Muhammadan religion, which the Sultan's Advisory Council in any State has approved for enactment; and

===== Page 433 =====
(b) to advise the Governor on any matter which he may refer to the Council for discussion, and on any matter which any Sultan may propose for discussion.

(2) Subject as hereinafter provided, every Bill relating solely to matters of Muhammadan religion approved by a Sultan's Advisory Council in any State under the provisions of section 75 of this Order, shall, after submission to the Council of Sultans, be referred by that Council to a Committee (in this section called "the Muhammadan legislation Committee") consisting of the Muhammadan Members of the Council of Sultans under the chairmanship of the senior Sultan present. The Muhammadan legislation Committee shall consider the Bill and shall report approval or disapproval thereof to the Council of Sultans, and, in case of disapproval, shall record the grounds of disapproval. Any such Bill which is approved by the Muhammadan legislation Committee shall be approved by the Council of Sultans:

Provided that no Bill shall be received by the Council of Sultans or be referred to, or considered by the Muhammadan legislation Committee, unless it be accompanied by a certificate from the Attorney-General certifying that, in his opinion, the Bill complies with sub-section (1) of section 75 of this Order, and does not conflict with any law in force in the State concerned other than a law, relating solely to matters of Muhammadan religion, which is to be repealed or modified by the Bill.

(3) A Bill approved by the Council of Sultans shall be returned by the Clerk of that Council to the Clerk of the Sultan's Advisory Council concerned with an intimation of such approval. Thereafter, the Sultan of the State concerned may assent thereto, and, upon such assent, the law shall come into operation as provided in section 75 of this Order.

(4) Any Bill disapproved by the Muhammadan legislation Committee shall be disapproved by the Council of Sultans and shall be returned by the Clerk of that Council to the Clerk of the Sultan's Advisory Council concerned, together with the grounds of disapproval. Any Bill so returned may be altered by the Sultan's Advisory Council concerned and submitted again for consideration by the Council of Sultans.

(5) In this section the expression "senior Sultan" means the Sultan having precedence under section 42 of this Order.

Summoning of persons not Members.

41. The Governor may summon to any meeting of the Council of Sultans any person holding public office under the Crown in the Union, notwithstanding that such person may not be a member of the Council, when, in the opinion of the Governor, the business before the Council renders the presence of such person desirable. Any person so summoned shall not have the right to vote in the Council.

Precedence.

42. After the Governor the Members of the Council of Sultans shall take precedence among themselves as follows—
First, the Sultans in order according to the dates of their recognition by His Majesty as Sultans of their respective States;
Second, Regents in order according to the dates of their appointments as Regents; and
Third, the Chief Secretary, the Attorney-General and the Financial Secretary in that order.

Quorum.

43. No business except that of adjournment shall be transacted by the Council if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than eight Members present in addition to the Governor.

===== Page 434 =====
44. The official languages of the Council of Sultans shall be Malay and English.

45. Subject to the provisions of this Order, the Council may, from time to time, make, amend, and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its proceedings and the dispatch of business, but no such Standing Rules and Orders shall have effect until they have been approved by the Governor.

46.—(1) The Sessions of the Council of Sultans shall be held at such times and places as the Governor shall, from time to time, by Proclamation, appoint.

(2) There shall be a session of the Council at least twice in every year.

PART VII.

STATE AND SETTLEMENT COUNCILS.

47. There shall be established a State Council for each of the Malay States, and a Settlement Council for each of the Settlements.

48. Each State Council and Settlement Council shall consist of the Resident Commissioner of the State or Settlement as Chairman and such ex officio Members, Nominated Official Members, Nominated Unofficial Members, and Elected Members as may be prescribed.

49.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, it shall be lawful for a State Council or Settlement Council to make laws on any subject—
(a) which is declared by Order of the Governor in Council to be of a purely local nature in the State or Settlement; or
(b) in respect to which the Legislative Council shall have delegated powers of legislation to the State Council or Settlement Council concerned.

(2) Any law passed by a State Council or Settlement Council may, at any time, be repealed or altered by the Legislature of the Union, and shall, without any formal repeal, be void so far as it is repugnant to any law passed by such Legislature or to any proclamation, rule, regulation, by-law, or order lawfully made under any such law.

(3) A State Council or Settlement Council shall exercise such powers of local administration as may from time to time be prescribed or allocated to it by the Governor in Council.

50. The Nominated Official Members of any State Council or Settlement Council shall be persons holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, and the Nominated Unofficial Members shall be persons not holding such office. Nominated Members shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

51. The Elected Members shall be persons not holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union and shall be elected in the manner prescribed.

===== Page 435 =====
Summoning of Persons Other than Members

52. The Resident Commissioner may summon to any meeting of a State or Settlement Council any person, notwithstanding that such person may not be a Member of the Council, when, in the opinion of the Resident Commissioner, the business before the Council renders the presence of such person desirable. Any person so summoned shall be entitled to take part in the proceedings of the Council relating to the business in respect of which he is summoned as if he were a member of the Council, except that he shall not have the right to vote in the Council.

Tenure of Office of Nominated Members

53.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, a person appointed a Nominated Member shall vacate his seat at the expiration of three years from the date of his appointment, or on the dissolution of the Council, whichever is earlier, but may, if qualified, be again appointed from time to time.

(2) If any person is appointed a Temporary Member of a State Council or Settlement Council in accordance with the provisions of Section 59 of this Order and such appointment is immediately followed by his definitive appointment as a Nominated Member, the said period of three years shall be reckoned from the date of his appointment as a Temporary Member.

Tenure of Office of Elected Members

54. Subject to the provisions of this Order, a person elected as an Elected Member shall vacate his seat at the expiration of three years from the date of his election or on dissolution of the Council, whichever is earlier, but may, if qualified, be again elected from time to time.

Qualifications for Elected and Nominated Membership

55. Subject to the provisions of this Order any person who is of the age of twenty-one years or upwards and who, the Governor is satisfied, is able to speak and (unless incapacitated by blindness or other physical cause) to read and write the English, or the Malay, language with a degree of proficiency sufficient to enable him to take an active part in the proceedings of the Council and who, in the case of a State Council, is a Malayan Union citizen, or, in the case of a Settlement Council, is a Malayan Union citizen or a British subject, shall be qualified to be a Nominated or an Elected Member of a State Council or Settlement Council, as the case may be, and no other person shall be qualified to be appointed or elected thereto, or, having been so appointed, or elected, shall sit or vote in such Council.

Disqualification for Membership

56.—(1) A person shall be disqualified for nominated membership of any State Council or Settlement Council for any reason which would cause disqualification for Membership of the Legislative Council under the provisions of section 20 of this Order.

Provided that sub-section (4) of section 20 shall have effect for the purpose of this sub-section as if the words "or with the Government of any State or Settlement within the Union," had been inserted before the words "for or on account of the public service," where those words appear in that sub-section.

(2) A person shall be disqualified for Elected Membership of a State Council or Settlement Council for any reason which would cause disqualification for Membership of the Legislative Council under paragraph (1), (2) or (3) of section 20 of this Order, or

(a) if, being a party to, or a member of a firm or director or manager of a company which is a party to, any subsisting contract with the Government of, or with the Government of any State or Settlement [POSSIBLY MISSING].

===== Page 436 =====
within the Union for or on account of the public service, or being otherwise interested in any such contract, he shall not have published within one month before the day of election, in the Gazette or in some newspaper circulating in the State or Settlement in which he seeks election, a notice setting out the nature of such contract and his interest, or the interest of such firm or company, therein; or

(b) if he is disqualified for membership of the Council under any prescribed provision for the time being in force in the State or Settlement concerned relating to offences connected with the election of Members.

57. (1) The seat of a Nominated Member of a State Council or Settlement Council shall become vacant upon the occurrence of any event which, if he were an Official Member or Unofficial Member as the case may be, of the Legislative Council, and the State or Settlement Council were the Legislative Council, would cause the seat of such Member to become vacant under the provisions of sub-section (3) of section 21 of this Order: Provided that paragraph (c) of sub-section (3) of section 21 shall have effect for the purpose of this sub-section as if for the words "if appointed under the proviso to section 19" there were substituted the words "in the case of a member of a Settlement Council".

(2) The seat of an Elected Member of a State or Settlement Council shall become vacant upon the occurrence of any event which if he were a Nominated Member of any such Council would cause his seat to become vacant under the provisions of sub-section (1) of this section, or if such Elected Member is disqualified for membership of the Council, under any prescribed provision for the time being in force in the State or Settlement concerned relating to offences connected with the election of Members.

(3) If an Unofficial Member or Elected Member shall be appointed temporarily to, or to act in, any office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, he shall not sit or vote in the Council so long as he continues to hold, or act in that office.

(4) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Nominated Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the State Council or Settlement Council concerned and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared, in manner aforesaid, again to be capable of discharging his said functions.

(5) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, suspend any Nominated Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the State Council or Settlement Council concerned. Every such suspension shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the State Council or Settlement Council concerned.

(6) Whenever the seat of a Member becomes vacant under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of this section, the vacancy shall forthwith be reported to the Governor in writing by the Clerk of the Council concerned.

===== Page 437 =====
Decision of questions as to Membership.

58.—(1) All questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain a Nominated Member of a State Council or Settlement Council shall be referred to and decided by the Governor in Council.

(2) All questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain an Elected Member shall be determined as may be prescribed.

Temporary Appointments.

59.—(1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in any State Council or Settlement Council as ex officio Members, or Nominated Official Members, or Nominated Unofficial Members, by reason of the fact that:

(a) an ex officio Member is lawfully discharging the functions of the Resident Commissioner; or

(b) one person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the ex officio Members; or

(c) a Nominated Member is lawfully discharging the functions of the office of Resident Commissioner or of an ex officio Member; or

(d) no person is lawfully discharging the functions of the office of an ex officio Member; or

(e) a Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or

(f) a Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in this Order, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or

(g) a Member is absent from the Union; or

(h) a Nominated Unofficial Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of his having been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union or to act in any such office;

the Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint a person to be a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) If the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Nominated Official Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as a Nominated Official Member; and if the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Nominated Unofficial Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as a Nominated Unofficial Member.

(3) Every person appointed to be a Temporary Member under this section shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Nominated Official Members, an Official Member;

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Nominated Unofficial Members, a Nominated Unofficial Member;

and, subject to the provisions of this section, the provisions of sections 53 and 57 of this Order shall apply accordingly:

Provided that in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed

===== Page 438 =====
shall not be regarded as an Official Member in computing the number of such Members prescribed in accordance with section 48 of this Order.

(4) Any appointment under this section may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment under this section shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of revocation of the appointment or when the vacancy shall cease to exist.

60. The Resident Commissioner, if present, shall preside at meetings of the State Council or Settlement Council and, in his absence, such Member of the Council as he may, in writing, appoint, or in the absence of that Member, or if no Member be so appointed, the Senior Member present shall preside.

61.—(1) After the Resident Commissioner, the Members of each State Council and Settlement Council shall take precedence among themselves as the Governor may specially assign, and in the absence of such assignment, as follows:

First, the ex officio Members in such order as may be prescribed;

Secondly, the Nominated Official Members definitively appointed, according to the priority of their appointments as such or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Resident Commissioner;

Thirdly, the Nominated Official Members temporarily appointed under section 59 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments, or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Resident Commissioner;

Fourthly, the Nominated Unofficial Members and Elected Members, according to the length of time during which they have been continuously Members of the Council; Members elected or appointed at the same time taking precedence among themselves as the Resident Commissioner may assign.

(2) For the purposes of this section—

(a) when the State Council or Settlement Council is dissolved, Members elected at the ensuing elections shall be deemed to have been elected by virtue of those elections, and Nominated Unofficial Members appointed to fill vacancies caused thereby shall be deemed to have been appointed, on the date on which the report of the first successful candidate for election is made to the Governor;

(b) paragraph (a) of this sub-section shall apply to the Members elected or appointed to a State Council or Settlement Council as first constituted under this Order as if such elections or appointments were consequent upon a dissolution of the Council; and

(c) in ascertaining the period during which a person has continuously been an Elected Member or a Nominated Unofficial Member of the Council no account shall be taken of any interval between the vacation by that person of his seat in the Council in consequence of the expiration of his tenure of office or a dissolution of the Council and the date of his re-election or re-appointment to fill a vacancy in the Council caused by that expiration of tenure or that dissolution.

===== Page 439 =====
Filling of vacancies.

62. (1) Whenever the seat of a Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member becomes vacant, the vacancy shall be filled by appointment by the Governor.

(2) Whenever the seat of an Elected Member becomes vacant, a fresh election shall be held to fill the vacancy in accordance with such provisions as may be prescribed.

Voting.

63. Save as otherwise provided in this Order, all questions proposed for decision in the Council shall be determined by a majority of the votes of the Members present and voting. The Resident Commissioner shall not have an original vote, but if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, he shall have a casting vote. In the absence of the Resident Commissioner, the Member presiding shall have an original vote and also, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, a casting vote.

Assent to Bills. Disallowance of laws.

64. The provisions of sections 30 and 31 of this Order (which relate respectively to assent to Bills and disallowances of laws passed by the Legislative Council) shall apply to Bills and to laws passed by a State Council or Settlement Council.

Royal Instructions.

65. Subject to the provisions of this Order each State Council or Settlement Council shall, in the transaction of business and the passing of laws, conform as nearly as may be to the directions contained in any Instructions under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet which may from time to time be addressed to the Governor, and to any instructions of the Governor under the Public Seal which may from time to time be addressed to the Resident Commissioner, in that behalf.

Standing Orders.

66. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of such Instructions as aforesaid, each State Council or Settlement Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its own proceedings and the conduct of business and for the passing, initiating and numbering of Bills, and for the presentation thereof to the Governor for his assent, but no such Rules or Orders shall have effect unless and until they shall have been approved by the Governor.

Official Language.

67. The official languages of each State Council and Settlement Council shall be Malay and English.

Quorum.

68. No business except that of adjournment shall be transacted by a State or Settlement Council if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than one quarter of the Members present besides the Resident Commissioner or Member presiding.

Introduction of Bills.

69. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council, any Member may introduce any Bill or propose any motion for debate in, or may present any petition to, a State Council or Settlement Council, and the same shall be debated and disposed of according to the Standing Rules and Orders:

Provided that, except with the recommendation or consent of the Resident Commissioner signified thereto, the Council shall not proceed upon any Bill, amendment, motion or petition, which, in the opinion of the Resident Commissioner or of the presiding Member, would—

(a) dispose of, or charge any public revenue or public funds of the State or Settlement, or revoke or alter any disposition thereof or charge thereon, or impose, alter, or repeal any rate, tax or duty; or

===== Page 440 =====
(b) Suspend the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council or any of them.

70. The sessions of each State Council or Settlement Council shall be held at such times and places as the Resident Commissioner shall from time to time by Proclamation appoint. There shall be a session of the Council at least once every year, so that a period of twelve months shall not intervene between the last sitting in one Session and the first sitting in the next Session.

71.—(1) The Resident Commissioner may at any time, by Proclamation, prorogue or dissolve a State Council or Settlement Council.

(2) On dissolution, all Members shall vacate their seats and the Council shall be reconstituted by election and appointment in accordance with the provisions of this Order at such time, within three months of every dissolution, as the Governor shall by Proclamation appoint.

PART VIII.

SULTAN'S ADVISORY COUNCILS.

72. There shall be established for each of the Malay States a Council to be called the Sultan's Advisory Council.

73. Each Sultan's Advisory Council shall consist of the Sultan as President and such Members as the Sultan shall from time to time appoint.

74. The functions of each Sultan's Advisory Council shall be—

(a) to advise the Sultan on all matters affecting Muhammadan religion in the State;

(b) to advise the Sultan in the making of laws under this Part of this Order;

(c) to advise the Sultan on all matters which are referred to the Council by the Sultan or at the request of the Resident Commissioner with the approval of the Governor.

75.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, it shall be lawful for the Sultan of each of the Malay States, with the advice of the Sultan's Advisory Council of such State, to make laws the provisions of which relate solely to matters of Muhammadan religion and do not involve the imposition, collection or remission of any tax or tithe.

(2) Such laws shall have effect only within the State concerned.

(3) When any such Bill has been approved by a Sultan's Advisory Council, it shall be submitted to the Council of Sultans for approval by that Council pursuant to the provisions of section 40 of this Order. No Bill enacted by a Sultan with the advice of a Sultan's Advisory Council shall become a law until it shall have been approved by the Council of Sultans and assented to by the Sultan of the State concerned pursuant to the provisions of that section.

(4) A law assented to by the Sultan shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the date of such publication, or if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

===== Page 441 =====
Qualifications for Membership.

76. Subject to the provisions of this Order, any person who is of Malay race, professing the Muhammadan religion, and of the age of twenty-one years or upwards shall be qualified to be a Member of a Sultan's Advisory Council, and no other person shall be qualified to be so appointed or, having been so appointed, shall sit or vote in such Council.

Disqualification for Membership.

77. A person shall be disqualified for membership of a Sultan's Advisory Council for any reason which would cause disqualification for Membership of the Legislative Council under the provisions of paragraphs (1), (2) or (3) of section 20 of this Order.

Tenure of Office.

78. Subject to the provisions of this Order, a Member of a Sultan's Advisory Council shall hold his seat in the Council during the pleasure of the Sultan of the State.

Presiding in Sultan's Advisory Councils.

79. The Sultan of the State concerned, if present, shall preside at meetings of the Sultan's Advisory Council and, in his absence, such Member of the Council as he may, in writing appoint, or in the absence of that Member or if no Member be so appointed, the senior Member present shall preside.

Precedence of Members.

80. The Members of each Sultan's Advisory Council shall take precedence among themselves as the Sultan of the State concerned may assign.

Conflict.

81. In the event of any conflict between a law made under this Part and a law made under Part V, or Part VII or made or continued under Part IX, of this Order, the provisions of the last mentioned law shall prevail.

Standing Orders.

82. Subject to the provisions of this Order, each Sultan's Advisory Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its own proceedings and the conduct of business and for the passing, intituling and numbering of Bills, and for the presentation thereof to the Sultan for his assent.

Official language.

83. The official language of each Sultan's Advisory Council shall be Malay.

Sessions.

84.—(1) The Sessions of each Sultan's Advisory Council shall be held at such times and places as the Sultan shall from time to time appoint.

(2) There shall be a session of the Council once at least in every year.

PART IX.

TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS.

85.—(1) Until such time as Parts IV and V of this Order shall come into operation, it shall be lawful for the Governor to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Union.

(2) In making such laws the Governor shall consult the Advisory Council.

(3) Section 31 of this Order shall apply to any law made under this Section as it applies to a law assented to by the Governor.

===== Page 442 =====
86.—(1) There shall be an Advisory Council which shall consist of the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary and such other persons as the Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint; and such persons shall hold their places in the said Council during the Governor's pleasure.

(2) The Governor alone shall be entitled to submit questions to the Advisory Council for their advice. The Governor may act in opposition to the advice given to him by the Members of the Advisory Council if he shall in any case consider it right so to do. In such case, it shall be competent to any Member of the Advisory Council to require that there be recorded on the Minutes any advice or opinion he may give upon the question and the grounds therefor.

(3) The Governor may regulate the procedure and practice of the Advisory Council in such manner as he shall see fit.

(4) The Governor may, by Proclamation in the Gazette, declare that this section shall cease to have effect, and thereupon this section shall cease to have effect accordingly on the date specified in the Proclamation.

87.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, the existing laws shall, except in so far as the same shall, in their application to the Union or to any part thereof, be repealed, amended or otherwise affected by or under any Act of Parliament, Order of His Majesty in Council or any law made under the provisions of this Order continue to have effect in the Union or, as the case may be, in that part thereof to which such law applied prior to the appointed day, but shall be construed subject to such modifications as may be necessary to bring them into conformity with the provisions of this Order.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section, the existing laws shall, except as aforesaid, in their application to any part of the Union, be construed, when the context admits, subject to the following modifications:

(a) references to the Colony of the Straits Settlements shall be construed as referring (but not exclusively) to the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang;

(b) references to the Federated Malay States shall be construed as references to the States of Negri Sembilan, Pahang, Perak and Selangor;

(c) references to the Governor or Governor in Council of the Colony of the Straits Settlements, or to the High Commissioner of the Malay States or to the Ruler of any Malay State or to any officer of, or authority, or body constituted in or for, the Straits Settlements or the Federated Malay States or any of the Malay States, shall be construed as references to the Governor or Governor in Council, or to the corresponding officer of, or authority or body constituted in or for the Union, as the case may be; and

(d) references to the Chief Justice or to any Court, Judge or Magistrate of the Straits Settlements or of the Federated Malay States or of any of the Malay States shall be construed as references to the Chief Justice or to the corresponding Court, Judge or Magistrate of the Union.

(3) The adaptations and modifications specified in the second column of the Second Schedule to this Order shall be made in the enactments mentioned in the first column of that Schedule.

===== Page 443 =====
(4) The enactments described in the First Schedule to the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890, shall apply to the Union as if the whole of the Union were a British Colony or Possession, but subject to the provisions of this Order and to the exceptions, adaptations, and modifications following, that is to say:

(i) The Governor is hereby substituted for the Governor of a Colony or British Possession, and the Supreme Court is hereby substituted for a Superior Court or Supreme Court, and for a Magistrate or Justice of the Peace, of a Colony or British Possession.

(ii) For the portions of the Merchant Shipping Acts, 1854 and 1867, referred to in the said Schedule, shall be substituted Part XIII of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894.

(iii) In section 51 of the Conveyancing (Scotland) Act, 1874, and any enactment for the time being in force amending the same, the High Court is substituted for a Court of Probate in a Colony.

(iv) For the purposes of Part II of the Fugitive Offenders Act, 1881, the Union, the Colony of Singapore, Sarawak, Brunei, North Borneo and Labuan shall be deemed to be one group of British possessions:

Provided that nothing in this sub-section contained shall be taken to extend to the Union the enactments mentioned in the Schedule to the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1913, or any of them.

(5) Where under the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894, or any amending Act, anything is authorised to be done by, to, or before a British Consular Officer, such thing may be done, in any place in the Union at which there is no Consular officer, by, to, or before such officer of the Government of the Union as the Governor may appoint.

(6) The Colonial Prisoners Removal Act, 1884, shall apply to and take effect within the Union as if the whole of the Union were a British Possession and part of His Majesty's dominions, subject as follows:

The Governor is hereby substituted for the Governor of a British Possession.

Validity of previous acts.

88. Subject to the express provisions of this Order, nothing in this Order shall affect the validity or future operation of any lawful act done in any territory now comprised in the Union by any person or authority before the appointed day.

Pending proceedings.

89. All proceedings commenced before the 15th day of February, 1942, in any Court of Justice in, or having jurisdiction in, any territory now comprised in the Union may be carried on in like manner as nearly as may be, as if this Order and the Act of 1946, had not been made or passed but in the corresponding Court of the Union, and any such proceeding may be amended in such manner as may appear necessary or proper in order to bring it into conformity with the provisions of this Order.

Crimes committed and causes of action arising prior to the appointed day.

90. Courts constituted for the Union shall have, within their respective powers, jurisdiction with respect to all offences (including offences against Proclamations issued by, or under the authority of, the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia) and causes of action committed or arising before the appointed day for which the accused might have been tried, or proceedings might have been had, within any of the Malay [POSSIBLY MISSING].

===== Page 444 =====
States or within either of the Settlements under the law (including the provisions of any such Proclamation) in force in the said State or in the Straits Settlements before the appointed day, and such jurisdiction shall be exercised in conformity with the law in force in the State or Settlement concerned at the date when the offence was committed or the cause of action arose and in accordance, as nearly as may be, with the procedure in force in Courts constituted under this Order.

91. Military Courts established in the Malay States or the Settlements by the British Military Administration by virtue of any Proclamation made by, or under the authority of the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia, in which proceedings have been commenced and are pending at the date of this Order shall be deemed to be lawfully constituted Courts with jurisdiction to continue and conclude such proceedings and to issue warrants for the custody of prisoners and the carrying out of sentences in accordance with such Proclamation and any Rules, Regulations or Orders made thereunder, after the appointed day. The powers and functions of a confirming authority or reviewing authority under any such Proclamation may be exercised by such person or persons as the Governor shall designate in that behalf.

92.—(1) In this section—

(i) "Malay States property" means property which, immediately before the appointed day, was vested in or was in the possession, or under the control or held on account of His Majesty, or the Ruler of any of the Malay States, or the Government of the Federated Malay States, or the Government of any of the Malay States, or any officer of any such Government for any of the purposes of any such Government;

(ii) "Straits Settlements property" means property which, immediately before the appointed day, was vested in, or was in the possession, or under the control, or held on account of His Majesty, or the Government of the Straits Settlements, or any officer of that Government, for any of the purposes of that Government; and

(iii) Any reference to property vested in any person or authority shall be construed as including a reference to any property in the possession, or under the control, or held on account, of that person or authority; and any direction that property shall be vested in any person or authority shall likewise be construed as including a direction, as the case may require, that the possession or control of property shall be transferred to, or that property shall be held on account of, that person or authority.

(2) Save as in this section otherwise provided, all Malay States property shall, as from the appointed day, vest in His Majesty, or in the appropriate officer of the Government of the Union, or in the person or body prescribed under sub-section (7) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Union.

(3) Save as in this section otherwise provided, all Straits Settlements property which was, immediately before the appointed day, either—

(a) immovable property situate in the Settlements or either of them; or

(b) vested solely for a purpose of the Government of the Straits Settlements which will, after the appointed day, be a purpose of the [POSSIBLY MISSING]

===== Page 445 =====
Government of the Union in relation to the Settlements or either of them;

shall vest in His Majesty or the appropriate officer of the Government of the Union, or the person or body prescribed under sub-section (7) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Union.

(4) Save as in this section otherwise provided any Straits Settlements property which was, immediately before the appointed day, vested for any purpose of the Government of the Straits Settlements which was common to the Settlements or either of them and to any other territory formerly included in the Straits Settlements but not included in the Union, shall be apportioned between the Union and such territory by agreement between the Governor and the Governor of such territory with the approval of a Secretary of State; or, in default of such agreement, shall be apportioned by order of a Secretary of State. Any such agreement or order may contain provisions for the assessment of values, for the perfecting of any transfer of property mentioned therein and for financial and other adjustments, and may contain such other provisions as may be considered necessary or expedient for carrying the apportionment into effect.

(5) Any Straits Settlements property apportioned to the Union under sub-section (4) of this section shall be vested in His Majesty or the appropriate officer of the Government of the Union, or the person or body prescribed under sub-section (7) of this section, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Union; and the Governor may make such vesting or other orders as may be considered necessary or expedient for carrying the provisions of this Section into effect, and for such purpose may appoint and empower persons to transfer property.

(6) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, any property which, immediately before the appointed day, was vested in the Ruler of any of the Malay States for any of the following purposes, shall continue to be vested in the Sultan of the State for the same purposes, that is to say—

(a) any property held by, or in trust for, or for the benefit of a Ruler for his official or personal use; or

(b) any building or land used for purposes of the Muhammadan religion, or property pertaining to the endowment of Muhammadan religious institutions;

and nothing in this section shall affect the use or enjoyment of any property vested in a Ruler or in His Majesty for any of the said purposes.

(7) The Governor may make regulations for determining, in cases of doubt, the person or body in whom property affected by this section shall be vested, and generally for giving effect to this section, and may, by Order, exclude any particular property from the operation of this section, or declare, for the removal of doubt, whether and in what manner, any particular property is affected thereby.

Transfer of liabilities.

93.—(1) All liabilities incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Federated Malay States or of the Government of any of the Malay States for any of the purposes of any such Government shall be deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Union.

===== Page 446 =====
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section—

(a) Such liabilities shall include claims in respect of Loans issued, and Post Office Savings Bank deposits received, by the Government of the Federated Malay States or the Government of any of the Malay States.

(b) Claims to pensions, gratuities and other like allowances in respect of service under the Government of the Federated Malay States or the Government of any of the Malay States before the appointed day, whether arising before or after that day, shall be liabilities deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Union.

(3) All liabilities incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Straits Settlements solely for a purpose which will, after the appointed day, be a purpose of the Government of the Union in relation to the Settlements or either of them shall be deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Union.

(4) It shall be lawful for the Governor, with the approval of a Secretary of State, to make, vary, rescind and carry into effect, arrangements with the Governor of any territory formerly included in the Straits Settlements but not included in the Union for the payment to the Government of that territory from the funds of the Government of the Union, of contribution towards the sums necessary to defray such of the liabilities of the Government of the Straits Settlements as shall have been transferred, by any Order in Council or otherwise, to the Government of that territory, including liabilities for the service and repayment of Loans and War Savings Certificates issued, Post Office Savings Bank Deposits received and pensions allowances and gratuities payable, by the Government of the Straits Settlements. Such contributions shall be proportionate to the share of such liabilities which, a Secretary of State is satisfied, is properly attributable to the Settlements.

(5) Claims in respect of liabilities deemed, by virtue of this section, to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Union which, if the Act of 1946 had not been passed and this Order had not been made, might have been enforced against His Majesty in His Government of the Straits Settlements, or against the Government of the Federated Malay States or of any of the Malay States or against any officer of any such Government in his official capacity or against any department of any such Government in connection with the administration of the Settlements or either of them or of the Federated Malay States or of any Malay State, may be enforced in such manner as may be prescribed by laws for the time being in force or by any regulation made by the Governor under sub-section (6) of this section, against His Majesty in His Government of the Union or against the Government or the appropriate officer of the Government of the Union, as the case may be.

(6) The Governor may make regulations for determining in any case of doubt the person or body by or against whom claims may be enforced under this section and generally for giving effect thereto.

94. The provisions of sections 88 to 93 inclusive of this Order may be amended by laws made under Part V or under section 85 of this Order.

===== Page 447 =====
PART X.

MISCELLANEOUS.

Oath of Allegiance.

95. Except for the purpose of enabling this section to be complied with, no Member shall sit or vote on any Council constituted under Section 13 and Parts IV and VII of this Order until he shall have taken and subscribed before the Governor, or some person authorised by the Governor in that behalf, the Oath of Allegiance in the form set out in the First Schedule to this Order:

Provided that every person authorised by law to make an affirmation instead of taking an oath in legal proceedings may make such affirmation in like terms instead of the said oath.

Provisions necessary to give effect to the Order.

96.—(1) Provision may be made by laws made under this Order and, until such provision has been so made, by regulations made by the Governor, regulating any matter which by this Order or by Instructions under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet is to be prescribed.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section, provision may be made regulating the election of Elected Members to any State Council or Settlement Council constituted by this Order including provision for regulating any of the following matters, that is to say:

(a) the persons, associations or bodies by whom Members are to be elected;
(b) the holding of elections;
(c) the qualifications of voters;
(d) the registration of voters;
(e) the ascertainment of the qualifications of voters and candidates;
(f) offences in relation to elections including the trial and punishment thereof; and
(g) the disposal of election petitions and the determination of questions otherwise arising regarding membership of the Councils.

(3) Such regulations shall be published in the Gazette; and thereafter every such regulation shall take effect on the day of publication or on such other day as may be therein specified and shall have the force of law.

Unqualified persons sitting or voting.

97. Any person who—

(a) having been elected or appointed a member of any Council constituted by this Order, but not having been at the time of such election or appointment, qualified to be so elected or appointed, shall sit or vote in such Council; or

(b) shall sit or vote in such Council after his seat therein has become vacant or he has become disqualified from sitting or voting therein; knowing, or having reasonable grounds for knowing, that he was disqualified, or that his seat has become vacant, as the case may be, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding two hundred dollars for every day upon which he so sits or votes.

(2) The said penalty shall be recoverable by action in the Supreme Court at the suit of the Attorney General.

===== Page 448 =====
98. No Council constituted by this Order shall be disqualified from the transaction of business by reason of any vacancy among the Members, or by reason of the sitting or voting therein of any unqualified or disqualified person.

99. For the avoidance of doubts it is hereby declared that any law or regulation made under this Order may be made to operate retrospectively to any date.

100.—(1) If any difficulty shall arise in bringing into operation any of the provisions of this Order or in giving effect to the purposes thereof, a Secretary of State may, by Order, make such provision as seems to him necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing the difficulty and may by such Order amend or add to any provision of this Order:

Provided that no Order under this section shall be made later than the first day of January, 1948:

(2) Any Order under this section may be amended, added to, or revoked by a further Order, and may be given retrospective effect to a day not earlier than the appointed day.

101. Nothing in this Order shall affect the power of His Majesty in Council to make laws from time to time for the peace, order and good government of the Union.

FIRST SCHEDULE.
OATH OF ALLEGIANCE.
(Sections 6 and 95).

I, ... do swear that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to His Majesty King George VI, His Heirs and Successors, according to Law. So help me God.

OATH FOR THE DUE EXECUTION
OF THE OFFICE OF GOVERNOR.

I, ... do swear that I will well and truly serve His Majesty King George VI, His Heirs and Successors, in the Office of Governor. So help me God.

THE SECOND SCHEDULE.
(Section 87 (3)).
Adaptation of Acts of Parliament.

Title of Act. Adaptation.

The Finance Act, 1922
12 & 13 Geo. V, c. 17.

The Pensions (Governors of Dominions, etc.) Act, 1929
19 Geo. V, c. 16.

Subsection (2) of section 45 of the Act shall have effect as if the words "Negri Sembilan, Pahang, Perak, Selangor" were substituted for the words "the Federated Malay States and" in line two.

Section 9 of the Act shall have effect as if the words "Malayan Union" were substituted for the words "Malay States" in the last line.

Printed by His Majesty's Stationery Office Press.
Drury Lane, W.C.2.

===== Page 449 =====
AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE
The 27th day of March, 1946

Present

THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
IN COUNCIL.

WHEREAS there was this day read at the Board a letter to the Lord President of the Council from the Right Honourable George Henry Hall, one of His Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, transmitting the Draft of Instructions to be given to the Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Malayan Union:

His Majesty, having taken the same into consideration, was pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council, to approve thereof, and to order, as it is hereby ordered, that the Right Honourable George Henry Hall, one of His Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, do prepare the said Instructions (which are hereunto annexed) for His Majesty's Royal Signature.

===== Page 450 =====
INSTRUCTIONS to Our Governor and Commander-in-Chief in and over the Malayan Union, or to any other officer for the time being administering the Government of the Malayan Union.

WHEREAS by the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946 (hereinafter called "the Order in Council") We have ordered that as from the appointed day there shall be a Governor and Commander-in-Chief (in the Order in Council and hereinafter called "the Governor") in and over the Malayan Union (in the Order in Council and hereinafter called "the Union");

AND WHEREAS We have by the Order in Council empowered and commanded the Governor to do all things that belong to his said office in accordance with the Order in Council and such Commission as may be issued to him under Our Sign Manual and Signet and according to such Instructions as may from time to time be given to him under our Sign Manual and Signet, or through a Secretary of State, and such Orders in Council and other laws as may from time to time be in force in the Union;

AND WHEREAS We are minded to issue these Our Instructions under Our Sign Manual and Signet for the guidance of the Governor and any other Officer who may administer the Government of the Union;

NOW, THEREFORE, as from the appointed day, We do hereby direct and enjoin and declare Our Will and pleasure as follows:

1. The Governor may, whenever he thinks fit, require any person in the public service of the Union to take the Oath of Allegiance in the form prescribed by the Order in Council, together with such other oath or oaths as may from time to time be prescribed by any laws in force in the Union. The Governor is to administer such oaths or cause them to be administered by some public officer of the Union.

2. Whenever there is a subsisting appointment of a Deputy to the Governor under the Order in Council, these Instructions, so far as they apply to any matter or thing to be done, or any functions to be performed by such Deputy, shall be deemed to be addressed to and shall be observed by such Deputy.

3. The Executive Council of the Union shall consist of the Governor as Chairman, three ex officio members, that is to say the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General and the Financial Secretary, together with two members holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union (hereinafter called "Official Members") and five members, not holding such office (hereinafter called "Unofficial Members") to be appointed by Us or by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal of the Union in pursuance of instructions from Us through a Secretary of State.

===== Page 451 =====
4.—(1) Subject to the provisions of the Order in Council, every Official or Unofficial Member of the Executive Council shall hold his seat in Council during His Majesty's pleasure, and, subject thereto, shall cease to be a Member at the end of three years from the date of the Instrument by which he is appointed, or such earlier date as may be provided by such Instrument; or previously if his seat shall become vacant under the provisions of these Instructions.

If any person is appointed to be a Temporary Member of the Council and his temporary appointment is immediately followed by his definitive appointment, the said period of three years shall be reckoned from the date of the Instrument by which he is appointed a Temporary Member.

(2) The seat of a Member of the Executive Council shall become vacant—
(a) upon his death; or
(b) if, being an Official Member, he shall cease to hold office of emolument under the Crown in the Union; or
(c) if, being an Unofficial Member, he shall be appointed permanently to any such office; or
(d) if he shall, by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor, resign his seat in the Executive Council; or
(e) if he shall be absent from the Union without written permission from the Governor:

Provided that a Member shall not be deemed to be absent from the Union for the purpose of this paragraph by reason only of absence in the Colony of Singapore for a period not exceeding one month.

(3) Any person vacating a seat as a Member of the Executive Council may, if qualified, be again appointed from time to time.

(4) If an Unofficial Member be appointed temporarily to any office of emolument under the Crown in the Union or to act in any such office, he shall not sit as an Unofficial Member of the Executive Council so long as he continues to hold or act in that office.

(5) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, suspend any Official or Unofficial Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the Executive Council. Every such suspension shall forthwith be reported by the Governor to Us through a Secretary of State and shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal, or by Us through a Secretary of State, or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the Executive Council.

(6) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Official or Unofficial Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council, and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared, in manner aforesaid, to be again capable of discharging his said functions.

5.—(1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council by reason of the fact that—
(a) an ex officio or Official Member is administering the Government of the Union; or
(b) one person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the three officers specified in clause 3 of these Instructions; or

===== Page 452 =====
(c) No person is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or
(d) a Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or
(e) the seat of a Member is vacant for any cause; or
(f) a Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in these Instructions, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or
(g) a Member is absent from the Union; or
(h) an Unofficial Member has been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union or to act in any such office;

a person may be appointed a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) The said person shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal and—
(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as ex officio or Official Members, shall be a person holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union; and
(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as Unofficial Members, shall be a person not holding any such office.

(3) Every person so appointed shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes—
(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of Members sitting in the Executive Council as ex officio or Official Members, an Official Member; and
(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Executive Council as Unofficial Members, an Unofficial Member; and, subject to the provisions of this clause, the provisions of clause 4 of these Instructions shall apply accordingly: Provided that, in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed shall not be regarded as an Official Member in computing the number of such Members for purposes of clause 3 of these Instructions.

(4) The Governor shall forthwith report every such temporary appointment to Us through a Secretary of State. Any such appointment may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be disallowed by Us through a Secretary of State or revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of disallowance by Us or of revocation by the Governor, or on supersession of the appointment by the definite appointment of a person to fill the vacancy, or when the vacancy shall otherwise cease to exist.

6. The Members of the Executive Council shall take precedence as We may specially assign and, in the absence of such assignment, as follows:

First, the ex officio Members in the order in which they are specified in clause 3 of these Instructions;

===== Page 453 =====
Secondly, the Official Members, according to the priority of their appointments as Official Members; or if appointed on the same day, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor;

Thirdly, the Official Members temporarily appointed under clause 5, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor;

Fourthly, the Unofficial Members in order according to the dates when they were first appointed to be Members, or temporary Members as the case may be, of the Executive Council, and, in the case of more than one appointment on the same day, in such order as may be assigned by the Governor or, in the absence of such assignment, according to the alphabetical order of their names:

Provided that, where a Member is reappointed to fill a vacancy caused by the termination of his own term of office, the date from which he has been continuously a Member of the Council (any interval between such termination and re-appointment being disregarded) shall be regarded as the date of his appointment for the purposes of this clause.

7.—(1) The Executive Council shall not be summoned except by the authority of the Governor.

(2) The Executive Council shall not be disqualified for the transaction of business by reason of any vacancy among the Members; but no business except that of adjournment shall be transacted if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than three Members present besides the Governor or Member presiding.

8. The Governor shall, so far as is practicable, attend and preside at all meetings of the Executive Council, and, in his absence, such member as the Governor may appoint or, in the absence of such Member or if no Member be so appointed, the senior Member of the Council present shall preside.

9. The Governor shall consult with the Executive Council in the execution of all powers and authorities conferred upon him, except in cases—

(a) which are of such a nature that, in his judgment, Our service would sustain material prejudice by consulting the Council thereupon; or

(b) in which the matters to be decided shall be too unimportant to require their advice; or

(c) in which the matters are too urgent to admit of their advice being given by the time within which it may be necessary for him to act.

In every case falling within paragraph (c) of this clause, he shall, as soon as practicable, communicate to the Council the measures which he shall have adopted with the reasons therefor.

10. The Governor shall alone be entitled to submit questions to the Executive Council; but if the Governor decline to submit any question to the Council when requested in writing by any Member so to do, it shall be competent to such Member to require that there be recorded upon the Minutes his written application together with the answer returned by the Governor thereto.

11. The Governor may act in opposition to the advice given to him by Members of the Executive Council, if in any case it shall in his judgment be right so to do; but in any such case he shall at the first convenient opportunity, fully report the matter to Us through a Secretary of State with the reasons for his action. In every such case it shall

Summoning and quorum.

Governor to preside.

Consultation with Executive Council.

Governor to propose questions.

Governor may act in opposition to Executive Council.

===== Page 454 =====
be competent to any Member of the Council to require that there be recorded upon the Minutes any advice or opinion he may give upon the question and the grounds therefor.

12. The Governor shall forthwith communicate to the Executive Council these Our Instructions and all such others as from time to time We may direct, or he shall find convenient for Our service to impart to them.

13. Minutes shall be kept of all the proceedings of the Executive Council and the Legislative Council. At every meeting of each Council, the Minutes of the last preceding meeting shall be confirmed, with or without amendment as the case may require, before proceeding to the despatch of any other business. Twice in each year, a full transcript of all Minutes of the Executive Council and of the Legislative Council for the preceding half-year shall be transmitted to Us through a Secretary of State.

14. (1) In the making of laws, the Governor and the Legislative Council shall observe, as far as practicable, the following Rules:

(a) All laws shall be styled "Ordinances" and the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor of the Malayan Union, with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council": Provided that in the case of:

(i) any law made by the Governor under section 85 of the Order in Council, the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor of the Malayan Union in accordance with the provisions of section 85 of the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946"; and

(ii) in the case of any law having effect by virtue of a declaration made by the Governor under section 29 of the Order in Council, the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor in accordance with the provisions of section 29 of the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946".

(b) All Ordinances shall be distinguished by titles and shall be divided into successive sections consecutively numbered, and to every section there shall be annexed in the margin a short indication of its contents. The Ordinances enacted in each year shall be distinguished by consecutive numbers, commencing in each year with the number one.

(c) Each different matter shall be provided for by a different Ordinance without inter-mixing in one and the same Ordinance such things as have no proper relation to each other. No provision shall be inserted in any Ordinance which shall be foreign to what the title of such Ordinance imports; and no permanent provision shall be included in any temporary Ordinance.

(d) In the making of laws Resident Commissioners and State Councils and Settlement Councils shall observe, as far as practicable, the following Rules:

(a) All laws shall be styled "Enactments" and the words of enactment shall be "enacted by the Governor with the advice and consent of the State Council"; or "enacted by the Governor with the advice and consent of the Settlement Council", as the case may be.

===== Page 455 =====
(b) The provisions of sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) of paragraph (1) of this clause shall apply to Enactments of State Councils and Settlement Councils.

(3) In the making of laws, Sultans in Sultan's Advisory Councils shall conform, as nearly as may be, to any Instructions given by the Governor under the Public Seal in that behalf.

15.—(1) Save as hereinafter mentioned, the Governor shall not, without having previously obtained instructions through a Secretary of State, assent to any Bill passed by the Legislative Council, which falls within any of the following classes, unless such Bill contains a clause suspending the operation thereof until the signification in the Union of Our pleasure thereon, that is to say:

(1) Any Bill for the divorce of married persons;
(2) Any Bill whereby any grant of land or money, or other donation or gratuity, may be made to himself;
(3) Any Bill affecting the currency of the Union, or relating to the issue of bank notes;
(4) Any Bill establishing any Banking Association, or amending or altering the constitution, powers, or privileges of any Banking Association;
(5) Any Bill imposing differential duties;
(6) Any Bill the provisions of which shall appear to him to be inconsistent with obligations imposed upon Us by Treaty;
(7) Any Bill interfering with the discipline or control of Our Forces by land or sea or air;
(8) Any Bill relating to questions of defence or any matter affecting naval, military, or air forces or the control of aerial navigation or aircraft or the transport or means of communication of naval, military or air forces;
(9) Any Bill of any extraordinary nature and importance whereby Our prerogative, or the rights and property of Our subjects not residing in the Union, or the trade, transport or communications of any part of Our dominions, may be prejudiced;
(10) Any Bill containing any provision prohibiting, regulating or licensing the import or export of goods, or imposing or varying any customs, excise or export duty, tariff, levy or cess, or allowing any discount, rebate or drawback from any such duty, tariff, levy, or cess, or containing any other provision (whether of a similar nature to the foregoing or not), whereby the trade or commerce of the Colony of Singapore might be prejudicially affected, unless the Governor of the said Colony, having previously been informed of the provision, shall have signified that he does not object thereto;
(11) Any Bill whereby persons of any racial, religious or other community are made liable to any disabilities or restrictions to which persons of other such communities are not also subjected or made liable, or are granted advantages not extended to persons of other such communities;
(12) Any Bill the principle of which has evoked serious opposition by any racial, religious, or other community and which in the opinion of the Governor is likely to involve oppression or unfairness to any such community;
(13) Any Bill containing provisions to which Our assent has been once refused, or which have been disallowed by Us:

===== Page 456 =====
Provided that the Governor may assent in Our name to any Bill falling within any of the classes described in this sub-clause (except a Bill falling within any class mentioned in paragraph (6) or (10) of this sub-clause), if he shall have satisfied himself that an urgent necessity exists requiring that such Bill be brought into immediate operation but, in any such case, he shall at the earliest opportunity, transmit to Us any Bill to which he shall have assented, together with his reasons for so assenting.

(2) The Governor shall not, without previously having obtained instructions from a Secretary of State, permit to be introduced or put into operation by subordinate legislation or executive action any such provision as is mentioned in paragraph (10) of sub-clause (1) of this clause, unless the Governor of the Colony of Singapore, having previously been informed of the provision, shall have signified that he does not object thereto.

Private Bills.

16.—(1) Every Bill (not being a Government measure) intended to affect or benefit some particular person, association, or corporate body, shall contain a clause saving the right of Us, Our Heirs and Successors, all bodies politic and corporate, and all others, except such as are mentioned in the Bill and those claiming by, from, or under them.

(2) No such Bill shall be introduced into the Legislative Council until due notice has been given by not less than three successive publications of the Bill in the Gazette of the Union, and the Governor shall not assent thereto in Our Name unless it has been so published. A certificate under the hand of the Governor signifying that such publication has been made shall be transmitted to Us with the Bill or Ordinance.

Laws made by the Governor.

17. The provisions of clauses 15 and 16 shall apply mutatis mutandis to any law made by the Governor under section 85 of the Order in Council as they apply to a Bill requiring the Assent of the Governor.

18. When any Ordinance of the Legislative Council or Enactment of a State or Settlement Council shall have been enacted, the Governor shall forthwith transmit to Us, through a Secretary of State, for the signification of our pleasure, a transcript in duplicate of the Ordinance or Enactment duly authenticated under the Public Seal of the Union and by his own signature, together with an explanation of the reasons and occasion for the enactment of the Ordinance or Enactment.

Laws to be published.

19. As soon as practicable after the commencement of each year, the Governor shall cause a complete collection of all Ordinances and Enactments enacted during the preceding year to be published for general information.

Appointments.

20.—(1) Every appointment by the Governor of any person to any office or employment shall, unless otherwise provided by law, be expressed to be during pleasure only.

(2) Save with the consent of the Governor, no person shall be appointed to public office in the Union who is not a Malayan Union citizen.

Regulations of power of pardon in capital cases.

21.—(1) Whenever any offender shall have been condemned by sentence of any civil Court in the Union to suffer death, the Governor shall call upon the Judge who presided at the trial to make to him a written report of the case of such offender, and shall cause such report to be taken into consideration at a meeting of the Executive Council, and he may cause the said Judge to be specially summoned to attend at such meeting and to produce his notes thereat. The Governor shall not pardon or reprieve any such offender unless it shall appear to

===== Page 457 =====
him expedient so to do, upon receiving the advice of the Executive Council thereon; but in all such cases he is to decide either to extend or to withhold a pardon or reprieve, according to his own deliberate judgment, whether the Members of the Executive Council concur therein or otherwise, entering nevertheless, in the Minutes of the Executive Council, his reasons at length, in case he should decide any such question in opposition to the judgment of the majority of the Members thereof.

(2) Until the Executive Council shall be constituted, references in this clause to the Executive Council shall be construed as references to the Advisory Council.

22. The Governor shall forward to Us, each year, through a Secretary of State, the annual book of returns commonly called the Blue Book, relating to Revenue and Expenditure, Public Works, Legislation, Civil Establishments, Pensions, Population, Schools, Course of Exchange, Imports and Exports, Agricultural Produce, Manufactures, and other matters in the said Blue Book more particularly specified with reference to the state and condition of the Union.

23. Except in circumstances in which he is not regarded as absent from the Union for the purposes of the Order in Council, the Governor shall not quit the Union without having first obtained leave from Us for so doing through a Secretary of State.

24.—(1) In these Our Instructions, unless inconsistent with the context:

“the appointed day” has the same meaning as in the Order in Council;

“the Executive Council”, “the Legislative Council” and “the Advisory Council” mean respectively the Executive Council, the Legislative Council and the Advisory Council of the Union constituted under and by virtue of the Order in Council;

“the Governor” includes every person for the time being administering the Government of the Union;

“Malayan Union citizen” means a citizen of the Union within the meaning of any Order in Council providing for Malayan Union citizenship;

“State Councils”, “Settlement Councils” and “Sultan’s Advisory Councils” mean respectively the State Councils, Settlement Councils and Sultan’s Advisory Councils constituted under and by virtue of the Order in Council; and

“Secretary of State” means one of Our Principal Secretaries of State.

(2) For the purposes of these Our Instructions, a person shall not be deemed to hold an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union by reason only that he is in receipt of a pension or other like allowance in respect of service under the Crown.

If it shall be declared by any law for the time being in force in the Union that an office shall not be an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union for all or any of the purposes of these Our Instructions, these Instructions shall have effect accordingly as if such law were enacted therein.

Given at Our Court at Saint James’s, this 27th day of March, 1946, in the Tenth year of Our Reign.

Printed by His Majesty’s Stationery Office Press, Drury Lane, W.C.2.

===== Page 458 =====
ON HER MAJESTY'S SERVICE

===== Page 459 =====
My Lord,

I have the honour to transmit to Your Lordship the drafts of:

(a) The Straits Settlements (Repeal) Order in Council, 1946.
(b) The Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946.
(c) The Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946.
(d) Instructions to be passed under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet to the Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Malayan Union; and
(e) Instructions to be passed under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet to the Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Colony of Singapore.

2. I have to request that Your Lordship will submit these Drafts for the approval of the King in Council, and that three sealed copies and six plain copies of each of the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Order, 1946, the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946, the Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1946, and two sealed copies and six plain copies of each of the Orders in Council approving the Instructions may be supplied for the use of the Colonial Office.

I have the honour to be,

My Lord,

Your Lordship's most obedient Servant,

(For the Secretary of State)

THE LORD PRESIDENT
OF THE COUNCIL.

===== Page 460 =====
Sir,

I have to signify to you His Majesty's pleasure that you prepare for His Majesty's signature a Warrant to the Lord High Chancellor authorising him to pass Letters Patent under the Great Seal of the Realm appointing Cecil William Victor Carey, Esquire, Barrister-at-Law, Bachelor of Laws, to the Office of Judge of the Supreme Court of the Colony of Singapore.

2. It is His Majesty's desire that the said Cecil William Victor Carey should hold, exercise and enjoy the said Office and Place during His Pleasure, together with all the Rights, Profits, Privileges and advantages thereto belonging or appertaining.

3. It is also His Majesty's desire that there should be inserted in the said Letters Patent a Clause or Proviso obliging the said Cecil William Victor Carey to exercise the said Office in his own person, except in case of sickness or other incapacity, or leave of absence granted by the Governor of the Colony of Singapore; and all such other Clauses and Provisoes as are requisite and necessary in this behalf.

I have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your most obedient, humble servant,

(and) Anderson.

===== Page 461 =====
Sir,

I have to signify to you His Majesty's pleasure that you prepare for His Majesty's signature a Warrant to the Lord High Chancellor authorising him to pass Letters Patent under the Great Seal of the Realm appointing Louis Victor Joseph Laville, Esquire, Barrister-at-Law, to the Office of Judge of the Supreme Court of the Malayan Union.

2. It is His Majesty's desire that the said Louis Victor Joseph Laville should hold, exercise and enjoy the said Office and Place during His Pleasure, together with all the Rights, Profits, Privileges and advantages thereto belonging or appertaining.

3. It is also His Majesty's desire that there should be inserted in the said Letters Patent a Clause or Proviso obliging the said Louis Victor Joseph Laville to exercise the said Office in his own person, except in case of sickness or other incapacity, or leave of absence granted by the Governor of the Malayan Union; and all such other Clauses and Provisoes as are requisite and necessary in this behalf.

I have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your most obedient, humble servant,

[Signature]

===== Page 462 =====
Sir,

I have to signify to you His Majesty's pleasure that you prepare for His Majesty's signature a Warrant to the Lord High Chancellor authorising him to pass Letters Patent under the Great Seal of the Realm appointing Charles Murray Murray-Aynsley, Esquire, Barrister-at-Law, Bachelor of Laws, to the Office of Chief Justice of the Colony of Singapore.

2. It is His Majesty's desire that the said Charles Murray Murray-Aynsley should hold, exercise and enjoy the said Office and Place during His pleasure, together with all the Rights, Profits, Privileges and advantages thereto belonging or appertaining.

3. It is also His Majesty's desire that there should be inserted in the said Letters Patent a Clause or Proviso obliging the said Charles Murray Murray-Aynsley to actual residence within the Colony of Singapore, and to exercise the said Office in his own person, except in case of sickness or other incapacity, or leave of absence granted by the Governor of the Colony of Singapore; and all such other Clauses and Provisoes as are requisite and necessary in this behalf.

I have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your most obedient, humble servant,

(Mr) Addison

===== Page 463 =====
Sir,

I have to signify to you His Majesty's pleasure that you prepare for His Majesty's signature a Warrant to the Lord High Chancellor authorising him to pass Letters Patent under the Great Seal of the Realm appointing Harold Curwen Willan, Esquire, Barrister-at-Law, to the Office of Chief Justice of the Malayan Union.

2. It is His Majesty's desire that the said Harold Curwen Willan should hold, exercise and enjoy the said Office and Place during His Pleasure, together with all the Rights, Profits, Privileges and advantages thereto belonging or appertaining.

3. It is also His Majesty's desire that there should be inserted in the said Letters Patent a Clause or Proviso obliging the said Harold Curwen Willan to actual residence within the Malayan Union, and to exercise the said Office in his own person, except in case of sickness or other incapacity, or leave of absence granted by the Governor of the Malayan Union; and all such other Clauses and Provisoes as are requisite and necessary in this behalf.

I have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your most obedient, humble servant,

(2m) ADDISON.

===== Page 464 =====
Dear Leadbitter,

It is imperative that all the constitutional documents relating to the establishment of Civil Government in the Malayan Union and Singapore should be passed by the Privy Council in time to enable all subsequent formalities to be completed so that the instruments can be brought into operation locally on the 1st April, the date on which the military authorities are to hand over.

The Straits Settlements (Repeal) Bill upon which these Instruments will be largely dependent is still before Parliament, but we anticipate that it will pass its remaining stages during the next week or so. We are hoping that Royal Assent will be given on the 26th March.

This is running matters rather close, and we should be grateful therefore if you would arrange to convene a meeting of the Council on that date after the Royal Assent has been given. We will confirm, as soon as possible, that that date stands.

So far as we can see at present the instruments to be submitted to the Council are as follows:

Straits Settlements.

An Order in Council fixing the "appointed day" under the Act:

Singapore Colony.

Constitution Order in Council.
Royal Instructions.

Malayan Union.

Constitution Order in Council.
Royal Instructions.
Citizenship Order in Council.

Sir Eric Leadbitter, C.V.O.

===== Page 465 =====
North Borneo (Not certain).

Letters Patent.
Royal Instructions.

Yours sincerely,

K. O. ROBERTS-WRAY.

===== Page 466 =====
C. O.

Mr. J.H. Thompson. 1/3

Mr. Roberts-Wray. 1/5

Mr. Paskin. 1/3

Permit. U.S. of S.

Parly. U.S. of S.

Secretary of State.

DRAFT.

Sir E.C.E. Leadbitter, Esq.
CVO.

Privy Council Office.

For Mr. Roberts-Wray's signature.

Dear Leadbitter,

We are anxious that all the constitutional documents relating to the establishment of Civil Government in the Malayan Union and Singapore shall be passed by the Privy Council before the 1st April next, the date on which this has been fixed to take place.

Unfortunately, the Straits Settlements Repeal Bill, under which these instruments will be made, is still before Parliament, but we anticipate that it will pass its remaining stages during the next week or so. We are hoping that Royal Assent will be given on

===== Page 467 =====
On the 26th March.

This, as you will realise, is running matters rather close, and we should be grateful therefore if you would arrange to convene a meeting of the Council on that date. We will confirm, as soon as possible, that that date stands.

So far as we can see at present, the instruments which we propose to submit to the Council are as follows:

Singapore Colony
Order in Council (Constitution)
Royal Institution
Malayan Union
Order in Council (Constitution)
Royal Institution
Order in Council (Religious)

North Borneo (not certain)

Letters Patent
Royal Institution

Perhaps Mr. Roberts Wray or Mr. Paskin will fill in the necessary details.

===== Page 468 =====
THE MALAYAN UNION ORDER IN COUNCIL, 1946

Comparative Table and Notes.

Note. The following abbreviations are used in this Table:

A. = The Aden Colony Order, 1936.

A. 1944 = The Aden Colony (Amendment) Order, 1944.

B.S. Acts. = The British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945.

Ceylon Inst. 1931 = Royal Instructions for Ceylon dated 22nd April, 1931.

Ceylon Inst. 1941 = Additional Royal Instructions for Ceylon dated 6th December, 1941.

Constitutional Memo. M.P. = Memorandum for the Cabinet on Future Constitution for Malay Peninsula.

Constitutional Memo., Singapore = Memorandum on the Future Constitution of Singapore dated 1st May 1945.

Dom. = The Dominica Order in Council, 1939.

Gam. Inst. = Draft Royal Instructions for the Gambia.

Gam. L.C. = Draft Gambia (Legislative Council) Order in Council, 194[POSSIBLY MISSING].

Gam. Prot. O. in C. = Draft Gambia Protectorate Order in Council.

G.C. = Draft Gold Coast Colony and Ashanti (Leg. Co.) Order in Council, 1945.

Jam. = The Jamaica (Constitution) Order in Council, 1944.

Jam. Inst. = Jamaica Royal Instructions dated 27th October, 1944.

Jam. L.P. = Jamaica Letters Patent dated 27th October, 1944.

M. Inst. = Royal Instructions for Malta dated 25th July, 1939.

M.L.P. = Letters Patent for Malta dated 14th February, 1939.

Nig. = Draft Nigeria Order in Council, 1946.

N.R. = The Northern Rhodesia (Legislative Council) Order in Council, 1945.

/S.S. (Repeal) Act.

===== Page 469 =====
S.S. (Repeal) Act. = The Straits Settlements (Repeal) Act, 1946.

S.S. Inst. 1924. = Straits Settlements Royal Instructions dated 18th August, 1924.

S.S. Inst. 1937. = Straits Settlements Royal Instructions dated 19th July, 1937.

S.S.L.P. 1911 = The Straits Settlements Letters Patent dated 17th February, 1911, as amended by Letters Patent dated 18th August 1924, 18th March 1935 and 19th July 1937.

T = Tanganyika Order in Council, 1920.

T and T = Trinidad and Tobago (Leg. Co.) Order in Council, 1924 as amended in 1928 and 1941.

"Willan" = Brigadier Willan's Constitutional Memorandum for the Malay Peninsula dated 8th March, 1945.

When a section is referred to by its number without more, the reference is to the draft Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946.

Recitals.

First and Second Recitals: Recite Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890 and His Majesty's jurisdiction in the Malay States. These States are set out in alphabetical order, c.f. Gam. Prot. Order in Council.

Third and Fourth Recitals: Recite S.S. (Repeal) Act. Original.

Fifth Recital: Recites the Straits Settlements Order in Council, 1946 which fixes the "appointed day". Original.

Sixth Recital: Recites expediency of providing for administration of Malay States in conjunction with Settlements of Malacca and Penang (also mentioned in alphabetical order). C.f. Gam. Prot. Order in Council.

Section

1. Short title and commencement.

Source and Notes:

The Order in Council will come into effect on the "appointed day", except S.15 (Executive Council), Part III (Legislative Council) and Part IV (Legislation and Procedure in the Legislative Council), Part V (Council of Sultans), Part VI (State and Settlement Councils), and Part VII (Malay Advisory Councils). Pending the convening of the Executive Council and Legislative [POSSIBLY MISSING].

===== Page 470 =====
Legislative Council, the Governor will legislate with an Advisory Council, see Part VIII (Transitional Provisions).

2. Interpretation.

(1) "Chief Justice" c.f. A.2. "Judge".

"the existing laws" See S.96 and c.f. Dom. 36.

"Gazette" N.R. 1(1), Jam. 1(1), G.C. 1.

"Governor" A.2. Dom. 4(1), Jam. 1(1), N.R. 1(1), G.C. 1.

"Governor in Council" Dom. 4(1), G.C. 1., with addition of words interpreting the expression to mean the Governor during transitional period.

Note: It is not proposed to inaugurate Executive Council at once. The Advisory Council can be consulted but will, in the main, take the place of Legislative Council (not Executive Council) during the transitional period.

"Malayan Union citizen". Original. Please consider.

"property" 23 and 24 Geo V c.51, s. 305 adapted. This definition is necessary for Part VIII. Please consider.

"the Public Seal" G.C. 1. etc.

"Session" G.C. 1.

"the Settlement of Malacca" Original. c.f. Straits Settlements Interpretation Order (Cap. 2) s.2 "Colony", "Settlement", and Municipal Ordinance (Cap. 133, s.6(3)).

"sitting" c.f. G.C. 1. "meeting"

"Sultan" Original. Consider.

"the Supreme Court" Jam. 1(1) amended.

"the Union" Original

2. (2) G.C. 1(2)

2. (3) G.C. 1(3) amended c.f. Jam 1(2) Gam. L.C.2.

2. (4) G.C. 1(4) Jam. 1(3). Gam. L.C. 2(2)

3. Establishment of Malayan Union Original

PART II.

4. Governor A.5. M.L.P. 4.

5. Powers of Governor A.5. c.f. M.L.P. 5. c.f. Gam. L.C. 5.

===== Page 471 =====
Publication of Governor's Commission and Taking of Oaths

7. Succession to Government. A.1944.2 (S.8) M.8.

8. Appointment of Deputies to Governor. A.1944.2 (S.9).

9. Public Seal. A.10 M.11. adapted.

10. Grants of Land. A.22 S.S.L.P. 1911 XIII adapted.

11. Suspension or Dismissal of Officers. A.24 S.S.L.P. 1937 XV adapted.

12. Pardon Gam. Prot. Order in Council A.25 c.f. S.S.L.P. 1911 XVI. Proviso as to banishment omitted.

13. Supreme Court A.15 amended by A.1944. Varied. A.20 (7). Discuss.

14. Subordinate Courts T.22. Discuss.

15. Establishment of Executive Council. Willan p. 24 Jam. 8 M.L.P.12. adapted.

===== Page 472 =====
25. Governor to preside. Jan. 19.
Gam. Inst. 9.
Jan. 20.
Query: Should this be omitted?

26. Voting.
c.f. Jan. 21.

27. Commencement of Part III.

PART III

16. Legislative Council.
(1)
(2)
N.R. 4.
A. 1944. S.4.
Willan p. 26.
c.f. N.R. 5.
c.f. S.S.L.P. XV.

17. Ex officio Members.
Willan p. 26.
c.f. N.R. 6. A.5.
Jan. 23. S.S.L.P. XVI.

18. Nominated Official Members.
Willan p. 26.
N.R. 7.
Gam. L.C. 5.
c.f. Jan. 24., S.S.L.P. XVII.

19. Nominated Unofficial Members.
N.R. 8.
Jan. 25. Gam. L.C. 6.
G.C.32(2).

20. Disqualification for Unofficial Members.
Jan. 27. amended.

21. Tenure of Office of Official and Unofficial Members.
N.R. 10.
Jan. 28. Gam. L.C.8.
amended. G.C.15(1).
c.f. S.S.L.P. XVII & XXI.

22. Suspension of Members.
Jan. 29. Gam. L.C.8(7).
c.f. S.S.L.P. XXVIII.

Filling of Vacancies.
G.C.20(2).

23. Temporary appointments.
Jan. 30. N.R. 11.
Gam. Inst. 9.
c.f. S.S.L.P. XXII, XXX, XXIV, XXV.

24. Extraordinary Members.
Gam. L.C.10.

25. Governor to preside.
N.R.13.
Gam. L.C. 16.
c.f. S.S.L.P. XXXI.

26. Quorum.
N.R. 14.
c.f. S.S.L.P. XXX.
Query: What number should be fixed?

27. Precedence of Members.
Gam. L.C. 14.
c.f. Jan. 12.
c.f. S.S.L.P. XXVI.
Consider proviso.

===== Page 473 =====
PART IV

Legislation and Procedure in Legislative Council.

28. Power to make laws. N.R. 16. Jam. 44. Gam. L.C. 18 (1)

29. Voting. N.R. 18. Jam. 46. I understand proposal is that Governor should not have an original vote.

30. Governor's reserved power.

(1) N.R. 19.(1) Jam. 47(1) Amended.

(2) See Constitutional Memo. Singapore. Paras. 17 and 18 which particularly stress the need for paragraph 2(c).

(3) N.R. 19.(2) Jam. 47 (3)

(4) N.R. 19.(3) Jam. 47 (4)

(5) N.R. 19.(4) Jam. 47 (5) c.f. G.C. 38.

31. Assent to Bills. N.R. 20. Jam. 48. Gam. L.C. 20. See also Royal Instructions for Singapore S.9.

32. Disallowance of laws. N.R. 21. Jam. 50. Gam. L.C. 21. adapted.

33. Royal Instructions. N.R. 22. Gam. L.C. 22. c.f. Jam. 51.

34. Standing Orders N.R. 23. Gam. L.C. 23.

35. Introduction of Bills. N.R. 25. c.f. Jam. 55. c.f. Gam. L.C. 25.

36. Sessions of Legislative Council. N.R. 26. Gam. L.C. 26. c.f. Jam. 56.

37. Prorogation and dissolution. Gold Coast Draft S.44. c.f. N.R. 27.

PART V

Council of Sultans.

38. Council of Sultans Original Willan P.19.

39. Membership

(1) Original Willan p. 19 Query Is F.S. to be a member?

(2) Original. Consider.

40. Functions of the Council. Original. Willan pp. 19 and 20.

41. Extraordinary Members. c.f. S.27 Gam. L.C.10. Consider whether necessary.

===== Page 474 =====
2. Precedence Original. Query Sultans before C.S. & A.G. or not?

43. Vacation of seats. Original. Based on S.22.

44. (1) Temporary appointments. Original.
(2) S.23(4)
(3) c.f. S.23(5)

45. Presiding at meetings. Willan p.21

46. Voting. c.f. S.26. Consider.

47. Quorum. Nig. 47.

48. Official languages. Original.

49. Standing Rules and Orders. c.f. S.34

50. Royal Instructions. c.f. S.33

51. Sessions of the Council. c.f. S.36.

PART VI. STATE AND SETTLEMENT COUNCILS.

52. Establishment of State and Original. Willan pp. 27 and 28 Settlement Councils.

53. Membership of State and Settlement Councils. Willan p.28

54. Functions of State and Settlement Councils.
(1) White Paper.
(2) G.C.9(1).

55. Nominated Members. Original. c.f. N.R. 9. Jam. 26.

56. Elected Members. Gam. 7.

57. Extraordinary Members. c.f. G.C.10.

58. Tenure of Nominated Members. c.f. G.C.12.

59. Tenure of Elected Members. G.C.11.

60. Qualification for elected and Nominated Member.

61. Disqualification for a membership. Original. It seems unnecessary to repeat provisions of S.21 in extenso for State and Settlement Councils; but this can be done if preferred.

62. Vacation of seats

(1) and (2) Original. Refers to S.22. The provisions can be repeated in extenso if preferred.

(3) [POSSIBLY MISSING]

===== Page 475 =====
(3), (4) and (5)

63. Decision of questions as to Membership. G.O.16.

64. Temporary Appointments. c.f. S.23

65. Presiding in State and Settlement Councils. G.O.18. Adapted.

66. Precedence of Members c.f. G.O.19.

67. Filling of vacancies G.O.20.

68. Voting c.f. S.26.

69. Assent to Bills. Disallowance of laws. Original. Query. Are the enactments of State and Settlement Councils to be referred to the Secretary of State? If so, these provisions will be necessary.

70. Conflict. Original. Query. Necessary to state this expressly?

71. Royal Instructions c.f. S.33.

72. Standing Orders. Introduction of Bills, Sessions, Prorogation and Dissolution. See Ss. 34, 36, 37 and 38. These provisions are applied by reference, but can be set out in extenso if preferred.

73. Official languages. Original. Query. Whether desirable to put this in the Order in Council?

PART VII

Malay Advisory Councils.

74. Establishment of Malay Advisory Councils. Original. Willan p.28.

75. Membership. Original. Willan p.28.

76. Functions. Original. Willan p.28. Constitutional Memo. M.P. para. 8. White Paper para. 8.

77. Power to make laws on matters of Mahommedan religion. Original. Willan p.28. Constitutional Memo para. 8. White Paper para. 8. Discuss. Is it intended to reserve these laws for signification of His Majesty's pleasure?

78. Qualifications for Membership. Original c.f. S.19.

79. Disqualification for Membership. Original c.f. S.21.

80. Tenure. Original. Query. "at the pleasure of the Sultan?" Discuss.

===== Page 476 =====
82. Vacation of seats. Original.

83. Temporary appointments. Original cf. S.44.

83. Presiding in Malay Advisory Councils. Original cf. S.25.

84. Precedence of Members. cf. S. Original.

85. Filling of vacancies. cf. S.67.

86. Voting. cf. S.29. Consider.

87. Conflict. Original. It may be desirable to state this.

88. Royal Instructions. cf. S.33.

89. Standing Orders. cf. S.34.

90. Official language. Original.

91. Sessions. cf. S.36.

92. Prorogation and dissolution. cf. S.37.

PART VIII

93. Operation of Part VIII. Original.

94. Governor may make laws. cf. A.12. Note: This empowers the Governor to legislate with the advice of an Advisory Council. To resolve doubts, it is desirable to give the Governor express powers to legislate retrospectively to any date prior to the appointed day. For instance, there is a gap between the lapsing of the Emergency Powers Acts and, with them, the Straits Settlements Defence Regulations, and the date when a local Ordinance can enact similar provisions. This may require coverage. Also, the Indemnity Ordinance and other Ordinances will or may require to be given retrospective effect.

95. Advisory Council. Original.

96. Continuance of Existing Laws. Largely original, based on A.16 and Dom. 36. See S.2 definition of "Existing Laws".

(2) Please consider.

(3) The Second Schedule is not yet complete.

97. Validity of previous acts. Dom. 37. A.17. adapted.

98. (1) Pending proceedings. A.18. Dom. 38. adapted.

===== Page 477 =====
(2) Limitation of actions

c.f. T. 21 (3)
A provision on these lines will, I think, be essential. Consider and discuss.

99. Crimes committed and causes of action arising prior to the appointed day.

c.f. T. 20. It will, I suggest, be desirable to resolve doubts by stating in advance that the Supreme Court of the Union has jurisdiction over offences and causes of action committed against, or arising under the laws of the Federated Malay States, the Unfederated Malay States, and Straits Settlements prior to the appointed day. An offence committed or cause of action arising prior to the appointed day might not be discovered, or an offender might not be apprehended, until after the appointed day. There must be jurisdiction to deal with such cases and it is better to confer it expressly and to state the law and procedure to be applied.

100. Military Courts.

c.f. T. 21 (1) and (2). This will avoid lengthy re-hearing of cases and release of under trial prisoners.

101. Transfer of property.

Based on Dom. 39 with substantial variations. Please consider.

102. (1) Transfer of liabilities

Original for the most part, but based on Dom. 40 and 41 and A.19. S.101 deals with transfer of property, this section with transfer of liabilities.

Query. What is the policy regarding liabilities of the B.M.A.?

PART IX

103. Oath of Allegiance.

c.f. N.R. 24, Jam. 54, Gam. L.C.24.

104. Provisions necessary to give effect to the Order.

c.f. G.C. 45.

105. Unqualified person sitting or voting

c.f. G.C. 46.

106. Vacancies not to disqualify.

c.f. Nig. 27.

107. Power to interpret Constitution.

c.f. S.30. Commonwealth of Australia Judiciary Act 1903-1934.

108. Removal of difficulties

Dom. 47, G.C. 47

109. Power reserved to His Majesty

c.f. Jam. 62, Gam. L.C.12.

Schedules.

First. Oaths

A. Schedule.

Second. Adaptation of Acts of Parliament and Orders in Council.

Dom. 2nd and 3rd Schedules. Note. This Schedule is not yet finished and is not attached.

===== Page 478 =====
THE MALAYAN UNION

THE MALAYAN UNION ORDER IN COUNCIL, 1946.

At the Court at
The day of 194.

PRESENT

The King's Most Excellent Majesty in Council.

WHEREAS by the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890, it is among other things enacted that it shall be lawful for His Majesty the King to hold, exercise, and enjoy any jurisdiction which His Majesty now has or may at any time thereafter have within a foreign country in the same and as ample a manner as if His Majesty had acquired that jurisdiction by the cession or conquest of territory:

AND WHEREAS by treaty, grant, usage, sufferance, and other lawful means His Majesty has full power and jurisdiction within the Malay States of Johore, Kedah, Kelantan, Negri Sembilan, Pahang, Perak, Perlis, Selangor, and Trengganu (hereinafter referred to together as "the Malay States"):

AND WHEREAS, by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Act, 1946 (hereinafter called "the Act of 1946") it is, among other things, enacted that on such day as His Majesty may by Order in Council appoint (in that Act and in this Order referred to as "the appointed day") the Straits Settlements Act, 1866, shall be repealed and the Straits Settlements, that is to say the settlements and dependencies mentioned in the Schedule to the Act of 1946 (which include, among other settlements and dependencies, the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang) and their dependencies shall cease to be a single colony and that on and after the appointed day each of the said settlements and dependencies shall be divided into such territories as His Majesty may by Order in Council direct and that those territories shall be governed either singly or in conjunction with such other territories (whether falling within the Schedule to the Act of 1946 or not) as may be specified in such Order and that

===== Page 479 =====
Such Order in Council may contain such other and consequential provisions as are contained in this Order:

AND WHEREAS by the Act of 1946 it is further enacted that the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945 shall apply in relation to each of the territories into which the said Settlements and dependencies are divided by Order under this Act as if it were a British settlement as so defined:

AND WHEREAS by the Straits Settlements Order in Council, 1946 it is provided that the appointed day shall be the day of 1944:

AND WHEREAS it is expedient to make provision for the administration, on and after the appointed day, of the Malay States in conjunction with the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang and the dependencies of the said settlements.

NOW THEREFORE, His Majesty, by virtue and in exercise of the powers by the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890 and by the Act of 1946 and the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945, or otherwise in His Majesty vested, is pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council to order, and it is hereby ordered, as follows:

PART I - PRELIMINARY.

(1) This Order may be cited as the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946 and, except as to section 15 and Parts II, III, IV, V, and VI, shall come into operation on the appointed day.

(2) Section 15 and Parts II, III, IV, V and VI of this Order shall come into operation on such day, or days respectively, subsequent to the appointed day, as may

===== Page 480 =====
THE MALAYAN UNION

THE MALAYAN UNION ORDER IN COUNCIL, 1946.

At the Court at
The day of 1946.

PRESENT

The King's Most Excellent Majesty in Council.

Whereas by the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890 it is, among other things, enacted that it shall be lawful for His Majesty the King to hold, exercise and enjoy any jurisdiction which His Majesty now has or may at any time hereafter have within a foreign country in the same and as simple a manner as if His Majesty had acquired that jurisdiction by the cession or conquest of territory:

And Whereas by treaty, grant, usage, sufferance and other lawful means His Majesty has full power and jurisdiction within the Malay States of Johore, Kedah, Kelantan, Negri Sembilan, Pahang, Perak, Perlis, Selangor and Trengganu (hereinafter referred to together as "the Malay States"):

And Whereas, by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Act, 1946 (hereinafter called "the Act of 1946") it is, among other things, enacted that on such day as His Majesty may by Order in Council appoint (in that Act and in this Order referred to as "the appointed day") the Straits Settlements Act, 1866, shall be repealed and the Straits Settlements, that is to say the territories mentioned in the Schedule to the Act of 1946 (which territories include, among other territories, the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang), shall cease to be a single colony and that on and after the appointed day each of the said territories shall be governed as His Majesty may by Order in Council direct either singly or in conjunction with such other territories (whether mentioned in the Schedule to the Act of 1946 or not) as may be specified in such Order.

===== Page 481 =====
And by the Act of 1946 His Majesty in Council is empowered to make such other and consequential provisions as are contained in this Order:

And Whereas by the Act of 1946 it is further enacted that the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945 (which authorize His Majesty to make laws and establish institutions for British settlements as defined in those Acts) shall apply in relation to each of the said territories as if it were a British settlement as so defined; so however that no instrument made under the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945 relating to any of the said territories shall come into operation before the appointed day:

And Whereas by the Straits Settlements Order in Council, 1946 it is provided that the appointed day shall be the day of 1944:

And Whereas it is expedient to make provision for the administration, on and after the appointed day, of the Malay States in conjunction with the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang:

Now Therefore, His Majesty, by virtue and in exercise of the powers by the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890 and by the Act of 1946 and the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945 vested in His Majesty, is pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council to order, and it is hereby ordered, as follows:

PART I - PRELIMINARY.

(1) This Order may be cited as the Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946 and, except as to section 15 and Parts II, III, IV, V, and VI, shall come into operation on the appointed day.

(2) Section 15 and Parts II, III, IV, V AND VI of this Order shall come into operation on such day, or days respectively, subsequent to the appointed day, as may be

===== Page 482 =====
"The existing laws" means all Acts of Parliament, Orders of His Majesty in Council, Enactments of the Legislature of the Federated Malay States, Enactments of the Legislature of any Malay State, Ordinances of the Legislature of the Colony of the Straits Settlements, Proclamations issued by the High Commissioner of the Malay States or by the Ruler of any of the Malay States, or by the Governor of the Straits Settlements, or by, or under the authority of, the Supreme Allied Commander South East Asia Command, and all Rules, Regulations, By-laws and other enactments or instruments having the force of law in the Union or in any part thereof immediately prior to the appointed day, whether the same were administered by the British Military Administration or not.

===== Page 483 =====
fixed by the Governor by proclamation in the Gazette.

Interpretation. 2. In this Order, unless the context otherwise requires -

"the Chief Justice" means the Chief Justice of the Union;

"the Gazette" means the official Gazette of the Union;

"the Governor" means the Governor and Commander-in-Chief for the time being of the Union and includes the officer for the time being administering the government thereof, and, to the extent that a Deputy to the Governor is authorised to act that Deputy;

"the Governor in Council" means the Governor acting after consultation with, but not necessarily in accordance with the advice of, the Executive Council of the Union, not necessarily in such Council assembled; and, while Part VII of this Order is in operation, means the Governor;

"Malayan Union citizen" means a citizen of the Union within the meaning of the Malayan Union (Citizenship) Order in Council, 1946;

"property" includes all property movable or immovable, and all estates, interests, easements and rights whether equitable or legal, in, to or out of property, and things in action; and "vested" in relation to property includes rights to property which are contingent rights in remainder;

"the Public Seal" means the public seal of the Union;

"session" means the sittings of any Council constituted under this Order commencing when the Council first meets after being so constituted, or after its prorogation or dissolution at any time, and terminating when the Council is prorogued or is dissolved without having been prorogued;

===== Page 484 =====
"the Settlement of Malacca" means the Town and Fort and Province of Malacca and all islands and places heretofore known or administered as part of the Settlement of Malacca, and the territorial waters adjacent thereto;

"the Settlement of Penang" means Georgetown and the Island of Penang (or Prince of Water Island), Province Wellesley and all islands and places heretofore known or administered as part of the Settlement of Penang, and the territorial waters adjacent thereto;

"sitting" means any sitting or sittings of a Council constituted under this Order commencing when the Council first meets after being summoned at any time and terminating when the Council is adjourned sine die or at the conclusion of a session without adjournment;

"Sultan" includes Raja of Kelantan, the Raja of Perlis and the Yang di-Pertuan Besar of Negri Sembilan, and, during a Regency in any of the Malay States, means the Regent or, if there be more than one Regent, the Regent to whom is assigned the function in connection with which the term is used;

"the Supreme Court" means the Supreme Court of the Union;

"the Union" means the Malayan Union constituted by section 3 of this Order.

(2) For the purposes of this Order, when reference is made to a Sultan of any of the Malay States or to any public officer by the term designating his office, such reference means the Sultan for the time being of the State concerned, or the officer for the time being discharging the functions of that office, as the case may be.

(3) For the purposes of this Order a person shall not be deemed to hold an office of emolument under the Crown in

===== Page 485 =====
The Union by reason only that he is in receipt of a pension or other like allowance in respect of service under the Crown.

If it shall be declared by any law for the time being in force in the Union that the office shall not be an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union for all or any of the purposes of this Order, this Order shall have effect accordingly as if that law were enacted therein.

(4) The Interpretation Act, 1889 shall apply for the interpretation of this Order as it applies for the interpretation of any Act of Parliament.

3. There shall be established a Union comprising the Malay States and the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang, to be governed and administered together and to be known as the Malayan Union.

PART II. THE GOVERNOR AND EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.

Governor.

4. There shall be a Governor and Commander-in-Chief (hereinafter called "the Governor") in and over the Union, and appointments to the said office shall be made by Commission under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet.

Powers of Governor.

5. The Governor is hereby empowered and commanded to do all things that belong to his said office in accordance with this Order and such Commission as may be issued to him under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet and according to such Instructions as may from time to time be given to him under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet, or through a Secretary of State, and such Orders in Council and other laws as may from time to time be in force in the Union.

Publication of Governor's Commission and taking of oaths.

6. Every person appointed to fill the office of Governor shall, before entering on any of the duties of his office, cause the Commission appointing him to be Governor to be read and published at the seat of Government, in the presence of the Chief Justice or, in his absence, of some other Judge.

===== Page 486 =====
of the Supreme Court, and of such members of the Executive Council of the Union as can conveniently attend; and shall take before them the Oath of Allegiance and the Oath for the due execution of the office of Governor in the forms set out in the First Schedule to this Order, which Oaths the Chief Justice or such other Judge as aforesaid shall administer.

7. (1) Whenever the office of Governor becomes vacant or the Governor is absent from the Union and there is no subsisting appointment of a Deputy under the next succeeding section of this Order, or the Governor is from any cause prevented from, or incapable of, performing the duties of his Office, then such person or persons as His Majesty may appoint under His Sign Manual and Signet or if there is no such person or persons in the Union so appointed and capable of discharging the duties of administration, the senior Member of the Executive Council then in the Union and so capable, shall, during His Majesty's pleasure, administer the Government of the Union, first taking, in manner in this Order prescribed, the oaths directed by this Order to be taken by the Governor. Thereupon such person or Member is hereby empowered and commanded, subject, if he is so appointed as aforesaid, to the terms of his appointment, to do, during His Majesty's pleasure, all things that belong to the Office of Governor as provided in this Order:

Provided that the Governor or any other person or Member as aforesaid shall not be regarded as absent from the Union for the purposes of this Order during his passage from one part of the Union to another or during a visit to any of the neighbouring territories in the exercise or discharge of any powers or duties conferred or imposed upon him by virtue of his office or when there is a

===== Page 487 =====
Subsisting appointment of a Deputy under the next succeeding section of this Order.

(2) Any such person as aforesaid shall not continue to administer the Government after the Governor or some other person having a prior right to administer the same has notified that he is about to assume or resume the administration.

8. Whenever the Governor has occasion to be absent from the seat of Government but not from the Union or to be absent from the Union for a period which he has reason to believe will be of short duration or whenever by reason of illness which he has reason to believe will be of short duration he considers it desirable so to do, he may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint any person resident in the Union to be his Deputy during such absence or illness, and in that capacity to exercise and perform for and on behalf of the Governor during such absence or illness all such functions of the Governor as shall be specified.

(2) By the appointment of a Deputy as aforesaid the power and authority of the Governor shall not be abridged, altered, or in any way affected otherwise than as His Majesty may at any time hereafter think proper to direct, and every such Deputy shall conform to and observe all such instructions as the Governor shall from time to time address to him for his guidance.

(3) Any appointment under this section may at any time be revoked by the Governor or by a Secretary of State and in case of absence as aforesaid, shall cease and determine upon the return of the Governor to the seat of Government or to the Union, as the case may be.

===== Page 488 =====
9. The Governor shall keep and use the Public Seal of the Union for sealing all things whatsoever that shall pass the said Seal. Until a Public Seal shall be provided for the Union, an official stamp bearing the inscription "Malayan Union, Public Seal" may be used as the Public Seal.

10. Subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force in the Union and of any Instructions from time to time given to the Governor under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, the Governor, in His Majesty's name and on His Majesty's behalf, may make and execute, under the Public Seal, grants and dispositions of any lands within the Colony which may be lawfully granted or disposed of by His Majesty.

11. Subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force in the Union and to any Instructions from time to time given to him by His Majesty through a Secretary of State, the Governor, for cause shown to his satisfaction, may dismiss or suspend from the exercise of his office any person holding any public office within the Union, or may take such other disciplinary action as may seem to him desirable.

12. When any offence has been committed for which the offender may be tried within the Union, the Governor may, as he shall see occasion, in His Majesty's name and on His Majesty's behalf, grant a pardon to any accomplice in such offence who shall give such information as shall lead to the conviction of the principal offender or any one of such offenders if more than one; and further may grant to any offender convicted of any such offence in any Court within the Union, a pardon either free or subject to lawful conditions, or any respite either indefinite or for such period as the Governor may see fit, of the execution of any sentence passed on such offender, and may remit the whole

===== Page 489 =====
13. (1) There shall be in and for the Colony a Court of unlimited civil and criminal jurisdiction to be called the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court shall be a Court of Record and may consist of a High Court and a Court of Appeal.

(2) There shall be a Chief Justice appointed by His Majesty by Letters Patent, or by the Governor by Letters Patent under the Public Seal in accordance with such instructions as he may receive from His Majesty through a Secretary of State, and as many Judges of the Supreme Court, similarly appointed by the Governor, as may from time to time be required. The Chief Justice and Judges of the Supreme Court shall hold office during His Majesty's pleasure.

(3) The constitution, powers and procedure of the Supreme Court and provisions relating to appeals therefrom to His Majesty in Council and provisions relating to the qualifications, order of precedence, duties and powers of Judges and appointment of temporary Judges, may, subject to the provisions of this Order, be prescribed by laws made by the Legislature of the Colony or enacted by the Governor under Part V of this Order.

(4) Nothing in this section shall be taken to prejudice the right of His Majesty upon the humble petition of any person aggrieved by any decision of the Court of Appeal to admit his appeal therefrom upon such conditions as His Majesty in Council shall think fit to impose.

===== Page 490 =====
or any part of such sentence or of forfeitures otherwise due to His Majesty.

13. (1) There shall be in and for the Union a Court of unlimited civil and criminal jurisdiction to be called the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court shall be a Court of Record and may consist of a High Court and a Court of Appeal.

(2) The constitution, powers and procedure of the Supreme Court and provisions relating to appeals therefrom to His Majesty in Council may, subject to the provisions of this Order, be prescribed by laws made by the legislature of the Union or enacted by the Governor under Part VIII of this Order.

(3) Nothing in this section shall be taken to prejudice the right of His Majesty upon the humble petition of any person aggrieved by any decision of the Court of Appeal to admit his appeal therefrom upon such conditions as His Majesty in Council shall think fit to impose.

14. (1) Courts subordinate to the Supreme Court and Courts of special jurisdiction may be constituted by or under the provisions of any Ordinance as occasion requires.

(2) Provision may be made by Ordinance for the hearing and determining of appeals from any such Court by the Supreme Court or otherwise.

===== Page 491 =====
15. There shall be an Executive Council for the Union, and the said Council shall consist of such persons as His Majesty shall direct by Instructions under His Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, and all such persons shall hold their places in the Executive Council during His Majesty's pleasure and, subject thereto, for such period and upon such conditions as may be specified in any such instructions.

===== Page 492 =====
LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL

16. (1) There shall be a Legislative Council in and for the Colony, constituted in accordance with the provisions of this Order.

(2) The Council shall consist of the Governor as President, three ex officio Members, eighteen Nominated Official Members, and twenty-one Nominated Unofficial Members.

17. The ex officio Members shall be the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General, and the Financial Secretary.

18. The Nominated Official Members shall be the two official Members of the Executive Council other than the ex officio Members and sixteen other persons holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, and shall be appointed by the Governor by an Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of His Majesty's instructions through a Secretary of State.

19. (1) Save as hereinafter provided, the Nominated Unofficial Members shall be Malayan Union citizens of the age of twenty-one years or upwards not holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, who are able to speak and (unless incapacitated by blindness or other physical cause) to read and write the English language with a degree of proficiency sufficient to enable them to take an active part in the proceedings of the Council. Nominated Unofficial Members shall be appointed by the Governor by an Instrument under the Public Seal in pursuance of His Majesty's Instructions through a Secretary of State:

(2) In special cases, the Governor may, for cause shown to his satisfaction, appoint a person who is not a Malayan Union citizen to be a Nominated Unofficial Member.

===== Page 493 =====
Member of the Legislative Council.

20. No person shall be capable of being appointed an Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council or, having been appointed, shall sit and vote therein, who at the time of appointment -

(1) is an undischarged bankrupt; or

(2) has, in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His protection, been sentenced to death (or penal servitude) or to imprisonment for a term exceeding twelve months and has not either suffered the punishment to which he was sentenced or such other punishment as may by competent authority have been substituted therefor or received a free pardon; or

(3) is a party to, or a member of a firm or a director or manager of a company which is a party to, or is interested in, any subsisting contract with the Government of the Union or with the Government of any State or Settlement therein for or on account of the public service and shall not have disclosed to the Governor the nature of such contract and his interest therein; or

(4) is a person found or declared insane under any law in force in the Union.

21. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, every Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council shall hold his seat in the Legislative Council during His Majesty's pleasure and, subject thereto, every Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member shall cease to be a Member at the end of three years from the date of the Instrument by which he is appointed or at such earlier date as may be provided by such Instrument; and every Member shall in any case cease to be a Member at the next dissolution of the Legislative Council after his appointment or election or previously if his seat shall become vacant under the provisions of this Order.

(2) The seat of a Member of the Legislative Council (other than an ex officio Member) shall become vacant -

===== Page 494 =====
(a) upon his death; or

(b) if he shall, without the leave of the Governor, be absent from two consecutive meetings of the Council;

(c) if he shall cease to be a Malayan Union citizen; or shall take any oath, or make any declaration or acknowledgment of allegiance, obedience or adherence to any foreign Power or State; or shall do, concur in or adopt any act done with the intention that he shall become a subject or citizen of any foreign Power or State; or

(d) if he shall be declared a bankrupt under any law in force in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection; or

(e) if in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in any territory under His Majesty's protection, he shall be sentenced to death or imprisonment by whatever name called for a term exceeding six months; or

(f) if, being Nominated Unofficial Member, he shall, without the approval of the Governor, become a party to, or if any firm in which he is a partner, or any company of which he is a director or manager, shall become a party to, or if he shall be otherwise interested in, any contract with the Government of the Union or of any State included in the Union for or on account of the public service and shall not have disclosed to the Governor the nature of such contract and his interest therein; or

(g) if he shall be found or declared insane under any law in force in the Union; or

(h) if being a Nominated Unofficial Member, he shall, by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor, resign his seat in the Legislative Council; or

(i) if, being an Official Member, he shall cease to hold office of emolument under the Crown in the Union; or

(j) if, being a Nominated Unofficial Member, he shall be appointed permanently to any such office;

(k) if he shall otherwise cease to possess qualification for appointment under the provisions of this Order.

(3) If a Nominated Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council shall be appointed temporarily to any office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, or shall be appointed to act in any such office, he shall not sit or vote in the Legislative Council so long as he continues to hold or to act in that office.

===== Page 495 =====
(4) Any person vacating a seat as a Member of the Legislative Council may, if qualified, be again appointed or elected as a member from time to time.

(5) The Governor may, by an Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council, and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared, in manner aforesaid, to be again capable of discharging his said functions.

(6) The Governor may, by an Instrument under the Public Seal, suspend any Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member from the exercise of his functions as a Member of the Legislative Council. Every such suspension shall forthwith be reported by the Governor to His Majesty through a Secretary of State, and shall remain in force unless and until it shall be removed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal or by His Majesty through a Secretary of State, or the person suspended ceases to be a Member of the Legislative Council.

(7) Subject to the provisions of this Order, all questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain a Nominated Member shall be referred to and decided by the Governor in Council.

22. Whenever the seat of a Nominated Member becomes vacant, the vacancy shall be filled by appointment by the Governor.

23. Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Legislative Council as ex officio Members, or Nominated Official Members or Nominated Unofficial Members, by reason of the fact that

(a) an ex officio Member is administering the Government of the Union; or

(b) one person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the three officers specified in section 17 of this Order; or

===== Page 496 =====
(c) no person is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or

(d) a Nominated Official Member is lawfully discharging the functions of one of those officers; or

(e) a Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or

(f) the seat of a Nominated Official Member or of a Nominated Unofficial Member is vacant for any cause other than a dissolution of the Council; or

(g) a Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in this Order, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or

(h) a Member is absent from the Union; or

(i) a Nominated Unofficial Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of his having been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union or to act in any such office;

the Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint a person to be a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) If the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Nominated Official Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as a Nominated Official Member; and if the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Nominated Unofficial Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as a Nominated Unofficial Member.

(3) Every person appointed to be a Temporary Member under this section shall, as long as his appointment shall subsist, be to all intents and purposes -

(a) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Nominated Official Members, a Nominated Official Member;

(b) in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Nominated Unofficial Members, a Nominated Unofficial Member.

===== Page 497 =====
And, subject to the provisions of this section, the provisions of the last preceding section of this Order shall apply accordingly:

Provided that, in the case of a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members, the person so appointed shall not be regarded as a Nominated Official Member in computing the number of such Members for the purposes of sub-section (2) of section 16 of this Order.

(4) The Governor shall forthwith report every such temporary appointment to His Majesty through a Secretary of State. Any such appointment may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be disallowed by His Majesty through a Secretary of State or revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(5) A temporary appointment under this section shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of disallowance by His Majesty or of revocation by the Governor or on supersession of the appointment by the definitive appointment of a person to fill the vacancy, or when the vacancy shall otherwise cease to exist.

24. The Governor may summon to any meeting or session of the Legislative Council any person holding public office under the Crown in the Union, notwithstanding that such person may not be a Member of the Council, when, in the opinion of the Governor or such Member, the business before the Council renders the presence of such person desirable. Any person so summoned shall be entitled to take part in the proceedings of the Council relating to the business in respect of which he is summoned as if he were a Member of the Council, except that he shall not have the right to vote in the Council.

25. The Governor, if present, shall preside at meetings of the Council, and, in his absence, such Member as the

===== Page 498 =====
Governor may appoint or, in the absence of such Member, or if no Member be so appointed, the senior Member of Council actually present shall preside.

26. The Council shall not be disqualified for the transaction of business by reason of any vacancy among the Members; but no business except that of adjournment shall be transacted if objection is taken by any Member present that there are less than 1/4 Members present besides the Governor or other Member presiding.

27. The Members of the Council shall take precedence as His Majesty may specially assign and, in default thereof, as follows:

First, the ex officio Members in the order in which they are mentioned in section 17 of this Order;

Secondly, the Nominated Official Members, according to the priority of their appointments as Nominated Official Members, or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Thirdly, Nominated Official Members temporarily appointed under section 23 of this Order, according to the priority of their appointments or, if appointed on the same day, in the order assigned by the Governor;

Fourthly, the remaining Members according to the length of time during which they have been continuously Members of the Council: Members elected or appointed on the same day taking precedence among themselves in such order as the Governor may direct:

Provided that, when a Member is re-appointed to fill a vacancy caused by the termination of his own term of office or by dissolution of the Council, the date from which he has been continuously a Member of the Council (any interval between such termination and re-appointment being disregarded) shall be regarded as the date of his appointment for the purpose of this section.

===== Page 499 =====
PART IV.

LEGISLATION AND PROCEDURE IN LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.

28. Subject to the provisions of this Order, it shall be lawful for the Governor, with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council, to make laws for the peace, order, and good government of the Union.

29. Save as otherwise provided in this Order, all questions proposed for decision in the Council shall be determined by a majority of the votes of the Members present and voting. The Governor shall not have an original vote, but, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, he shall have a casting vote. In the absence of the Governor, the Member presiding shall have an original vote and also, if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, a casting vote.

30. (1) If the Governor shall consider that it is expedient in the interests of public order, public faith, or good government that any Bill introduced, or any motion proposed for decision in the Council shall have effect, then if the Council fail to pass such a Bill or motion within such time and in such form as the Governor may think reasonable and expedient, the Governor, at any time in his discretion, may, notwithstanding any provisions of this Order or of any Standing Rules or Orders of the Council, declare that such Bill or motion shall have effect as if it had been passed by the Council, either in the form in which it was so introduced or proposed or with such amendments as the Governor shall think fit which have been moved or proposed in the Council or in any Committee thereof; and thereupon the said Bill or motion shall have effect as if it has been so passed, and, in the case of any such Bill, the provisions of this Order relating to assent to Bills and disallowance of laws shall apply.

===== Page 500 =====
(2) In this section the expressions "public order, public faith or good government" shall, without prejudice to their generality, include the following:

(a) the responsibility of the Union as a component part of the British Empire, and all questions relating to defence, including provision, construction, maintenance and use of defence works, areas and communications;

(b) foreign relations and relations with other parts of the British Empire;

(c) subjects upon which, in the opinion of the Governor or of a Secretary of State, it is necessary to secure uniformity in legislation between the Union and the Colony of Singapore; and

(d) all matters pertaining to the creation or abolition of any public office and to the appointment, salary or other conditions of service or any public officer or officers.

(3) The Governor shall forthwith report to a Secretary of State every case in which he shall make any such declaration as is mentioned in sub-section (1) of this section and the reason therefor.

(4) If any Member of the Legislative Council objects to any declaration made under this section, he may, within seven days of the making thereof, submit to the Governor a statement in writing of his reasons for so objecting and a copy of such statement shall, if furnished by such Member, be forwarded by the Governor as soon as practicable to a Secretary of State.

(5) Any such declaration other than a declaration relating to a resolution, may by a Secretary of State, and the Governor shall notify such revocation in the Gazette; and from the date of such notification any resolution which shall have had effect by virtue of the declaration revoked shall cease to have effect, but without prejudice to anything lawfully done thereunder.

31. (1) No Bill shall become a law until either the Governor shall assent thereto in His Majesty's name and on His Majesty's behalf, and shall sign the same in token of assent, or His

/Majesty

===== Page 501 =====
Majesty shall give his assent thereto through a Secretary of State.

(2) When a Bill is presented to the Governor for his assent, he shall, according to his discretion, but subject to the provisions of this Order and of any Instructions addressed to him under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, declare that he assents or refuses to assent thereto, or that he reserves the Bill for the signification of His Majesty's pleasure.

(3) A law assented to by the Governor shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the date on which such assent shall be given, or, if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment (including any enactment in force at the commencement of this Order) that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

(4) A Bill reserved for the signification of His Majesty's pleasure shall become a law so soon as His Majesty shall have given His assent thereto, through a Secretary of State, and the Governor shall have signified such assent by Proclamation in the Gazette. Every such law shall come into operation on the date of such Proclamation or, if it shall be enacted either in the law or in some other enactment (including any enactment in force at the commencement of this Order), that it shall come into operation on some other date, on that date.

32. (1) Any law to which the Governor shall have given his assent may be disallowed by His Majesty through a Secretary of State.

(2) Whenever any law has been disallowed by His Majesty, the Governor shall cause notice of such disallowance to be published in the Gazette.

(3) Without prejudice to anything lawfully done thereunder, every law so disallowed shall cease to have effect as soon

===== Page 502 =====
The Council, and the same shall be debated and disposed of according to the Standing Rules and Orders.

Provided that, except with the recommendation or consent of the Governor signified thereto, the Council shall not proceed upon any Bill, amendment, motion, or petition, which

===== Page 503 =====
As notice of such disallowance shall be published as aforesaid. Thereafter, any enactment repealed or amended by such law shall have effect as if such law had not been made, but save as aforesaid the provisions of subsection (2) of section 38 of the Interpretation Act, 1889 shall apply to such disallowance as they apply to the repeal of an Act of Parliament.

33. Subject to the provisions of this Order, the Governor and the Council shall, in the transaction of business and the passing of laws, conform as nearly as may be to the directions contained in any Instructions under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet which may from time to time be addressed to the Governor in that behalf.

34. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Order and of such Instructions as aforesaid, the Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its own proceedings and the conduct of business and for the passing, intitling and numbering of Bills, and for the presentation of the same to the Governor for his assent, but no such Rules or Orders shall have effect unless and until they have been approved by the Governor.

35. Subject to the provisions of this Order and of the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council, any Member may introduce any Bill or propose any motion for debate in, or may present any petition, which, in the opinion of the Governor or of the presiding Member, would—

(a) dispose of, or charge any public revenue or public funds of the Union, or revoke or alter any disposition thereof or charge thereon, or impose, alter, or repeal any rate, tax or duty; or

(b) suspend the Standing Rules and Orders of the Council or any of them.

===== Page 504 =====
36. (1) The sessions of the Legislative Council shall be held at such times and places as the Governor shall from time to time by proclamation appoint.

(2) There shall be a session of the Council at least once in every year, so that a period of twelve months shall not intervene between the last sitting in one session and the first sitting in the next session.

37. (1) The Governor may at any time, by proclamation, prorogue or dissolve the Legislative Council.

(2) On dissolution, all Members shall vacate their seats and the Council shall be reconstituted by election and appointment in accordance with the provisions of this Order at such time, within three months of every dissolution, as the Governor shall by proclamation appoint.

===== Page 505 =====
PART V. THE COUNCIL OF SULTANS.

38. There shall be established for the Union a Council to be called the Council of Sultans.

39. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, the Council of Sultans shall consist of The Governor as President and the following Members:

His Highness the Sultan of the State and Territory of Johore;

His Highness the Sultan and Ruler of Kedah;

His Highness the Raja of Kelantan;

His Highness the Yang di-Pertuan Besar of Negri Sembilan;

His Highness the Sultan of Pahang;

His Highness the Sultan of Perak;

His Highness the Raja of Perlis;

His Highness the Sultan of Selangor;

His Highness the Sultan of Trengganu;

The Attorney General; and

The Chief Secretary; and

The Financial Secretary.

(2) During a Regency in any of the Malay States, the Regent or, if there be more than one, such one of the Regents as His Majesty may assign by instructions under His Sign Manual and Signet or through a Secretary of State, shall be a Member of the Council in the place of the Sultan of that State.

40. The functions of the Council of Sultans shall be to advise the Governor on all matters affecting the Mahommedan religion and, in particular, upon Bills enacted by a Sultan with the advice of the Malay Advisory Council in any State, requiring the assent of the Governor under Part VII hereof;

(b) to advise the Governor on any matter referred to the Council by the Governor for discussion; and

===== Page 506 =====
(c) With the prior consent of the Governor, to advise the Governor on any matter proposed by any Sultan for discussion.

41. Whenever, upon any special occasion, the Governor desires that the Council of Sultans shall have the advice of any person in the Union upon any matter before the Council, he may summon for such special occasion any such person as an Extraordinary Member of the Council.

Extraordinary Members shall not have the right to vote on any matter before the Council.

42. The Members of the Council of Sultans shall take precedence among themselves as follows:

First, the Sultans in order according to the dates of their recognition by His Majesty as Sultans of their respective States;

Second, Regents in order according to the dates of their appointments as Regents;

Third, The Chief Secretary, the Attorney General and the Financial Secretary in that order; and

Fourth, the Extraordinary Members in such order as the Governor shall assign.

43. The seat of a Sultan shall become vacant:

(a) Upon the death of the Sultan;

(b) Upon the death of any Regent occupying a seat;

(c) If he shall cease to be Sultan of his State, or if a Regent occupying the seat shall cease to be the Regent assigned a Member of the Council under the provisions of Section (2) of this Order;

(d) If he or Regent occupying the seat shall take any oath, or make any declaration or acknowledgment, of allegiance or adherence to any foreign Power or State; or shall do, concur in, or adopt any act done with the intention that he shall become a subject or citizen of, or enter or attempt to enter into diplomatic relations with, any foreign Power or State; or

(e) If, under any law in force in the Union, he or the Regent occupying the seat shall be found or declared to be of unsound mind or adjudged to be a lunatic;

(f) If he, or the Regent occupying the seat shall be declared by the Governor, under the provisions of subsection (2) of this section, to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council.

(2) The Governor may, by an Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Member of the Council of

===== Page 507 =====
Sultans to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council, and, thereupon, such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council. Every such declaration shall forthwith be reported to His Majesty through a Secretary of State and shall remain in force until such Member shall be declared in manner aforesaid to be again capable of discharging his said functions.

(3) Any person vacating a seat as a Member of the Council may, if qualified, be again appointed from time to time.

44. (1) Whenever the seat of a Member of the Council of Sultans is temporarily vacant, the Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint a person to be a Temporary Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) The Governor shall forthwith report every such temporary appointment to His Majesty through a Secretary of State. Any such appointment may (without prejudice to anything done by virtue thereof) be disallowed by His Majesty through a Secretary of State or revoked by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

(3) A temporary appointment under this section shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of disallowance by His Majesty or of revocation by the Governor or on supervision of the appointment by the definitive appointment of a person to fill the vacancy, or where the vacancy shall otherwise cease to exist.

45. The Governor shall preside at meetings of the Council of Sultans.

46. All questions proposed for decision in the Council may be determined by a majority of the votes of the Members present and Voting. The President shall not have

===== Page 508 =====
47. No business except that of adjournment shall be transacted if objection is taken by any Member that there are less than five Members present.

48. The official languages of the Council of Sultans shall be Malay and English.

49. Subject to the provisions of this Order, the Council may, from time to time, make, amend and revoke Standing Rules and Orders for the regulation and orderly conduct of its proceedings and the despatch of business but no such Standing Rules and Orders shall have effect until they have been approved by the Governor.

50. Subject to the provisions of this Order the Council of Sultans shall, in the transaction of business, conform as nearly as may be, to the directions contained in any Instructions under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet which may from time to time be addressed to the Governor in that behalf.

51. (1) The Sessions of the Council of Sultans shall be held at such time and places as the Governor shall, from time to time, by proclamation appoint.

(2) There shall be a session of the Council at least once in every year, so that a period of twelve months shall not intervene between the last sitting in one Session and the first sitting in the next Session.

===== Page 509 =====
PART VI STATE AND SETTLEMENT COUNCILS

Establishment of State and Settlement Councils

52. (1) There shall be established for each of the Malay States a State Council.

(2) There shall be established in and for each of the Settlements a Settlement Council.

53. Each State Council and Settlement Council shall consist of the Resident Commissioner as Chairman and such ex-officio Members, Nominated Official Members, Nominated Unofficial Members and Elected Members as may be specified by any law in force in the Colony or prescribed by regulations made by the Governor under Section 104 of this Order.

54. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, it shall be lawful for a State Council or Settlement Council to make laws on any subject -
(a) which, in the opinion of the Governor in Council is of a purely local or private nature in the State or settlement;
or
(b) in respect to which the Legislative Council shall have delegated powers of legislation to the State or Settlement Council concerned.

(2) A State Council or Settlement Council may exercise such powers of local administration as may from time to time be allocated to it by the Government of the Union.

Nominated Members

55. The Nominated Members shall be appointed by the Governor by Instrument under the Public Seal.

Elected Members

56. The Elected Members shall be elected in the manner provided by any law for the time being in force in the Union or by Regulations made by the Governor under Section 104 of this Order.

===== Page 510 =====
57. Whenever upon any occasion the Governor is of opinion that a State Council or Settlement Council should have the assistance of any person touching any matter, he may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint such person to be, for such occasion, an Extraordinary Member of the Council, but no such Extraordinary Member shall have the right to vote in the Council.

58. (1) Subject to the provisions of the Order, a person appointed a Nominated Member shall vacate his seat at the expiration of three years from the date of his appointment, or on the dissolution of the Council whichever is earlier, but, if qualified, shall be eligible for reappointment.

(2) If any person is appointed temporarily a Member of a State Council or Settlement Council in accordance with the provisions of Section 6 of this Order and such appointment is immediately followed by his definitive appointment as a Nominated Member, the said period of three years shall be reckoned from the date of his appointment as a temporary member.

59. Subject to the provisions of this Order, a person elected as an Elected Member shall vacate his seat at the expiration of three years from the date of his election, or on dissolution of the Council, whichever is earlier, but, if qualified, shall be eligible for re-election.

60. Subject to the provisions of this Order, any person who is a British nominated subject or a Malayan Union citizen, who is of the age of twenty-one years or upwards shall be qualified to be an elected or nominated member of a State Council or Settlement Council, and no other person shall be qualified to be appointed or elected thereto, or, having been so elected

===== Page 511 =====
61. (1) A person shall be disqualified for nominated membership of any State Council or Settlement Council for any reason which would cause disqualification for Unofficial Members of the Legislative Council under the provisions of section 20 of this Order.

(2) A person shall be disqualified for Elected Membership of a State Council or Settlement Council for any reason which would cause disqualification of a Member of the Legislative Council under paragraph (1), (2), or (4) of section 21 of this Order, or

(a) if, being a party to, or a member of a firm or director or manager of a company which is a party to, or interested in any subsisting contract with the Government of the Union or of any State or Settlement thereof for or on account of the public service, he shall not have published within one month before the day of election, in the Gazette or in some newspaper circulating in the State or Settlement in which he seeks election, a notice setting out the nature of such contract and his interest therein; or

(b) if he is disqualified for membership of the Council under any law or regulation for the time being in force in the State or Settlement concerned relating to offences connected with the election of Members.

62. (1) The seat of a Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member of a State Council or Settlement Council shall become vacant upon the occurrence in relation to such Member of any event which, if it occurred in relation to a Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council, would cause the seat of such last mentioned Member to become vacant under the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 22 of this Order.

===== Page 512 =====
(2) The seat of an Elected Member of a State or Settlement Council shall become vacant upon the occurrence in relation to such Member of any event which would cause the seat of a Nominated Member to become vacant under the provisions of sub-section (1) of this section, or if such Elected Member is disqualified for membership of the Council under any law or regulation for the time being in force in the State or Settlement concerned relating to offences connected with the election of Members.

(3) If any Nominated Unofficial Member or Elected Member shall be appointed temporarily to, or to act in, any office of emolument under the Crown in the Union, he shall not sit or vote in the Council so long as he continues to hold, or act in that office.

(4) The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, declare any Nominated Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the State Council or Settlement Council concerned and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared, in manner aforesaid, again to be capable of discharging his said functions.

(5) Whenever the seat of a Nominated Unofficial Member or Elected Member becomes vacant under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of this section, the vacancy shall forthwith be reported to the Governor in writing by the Clerk of the Council concerned.

63. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, all questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain a Nominated Member of a State Council or Settlement Council shall be referred to and decided by the Governor in Council.

(2) Subject as aforesaid, all questions which may arise as to the right of any person to be or remain an Elected Member shall be determined as may be prescribed.

===== Page 513 =====
By any law of the Union relating to the election of Members or by regulations made by the Governor under section 104 of this Order.

64. (1) Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the number of persons sitting in any State or Settlement Council as ex officio Members, or Nominated Official Members, or Nominated Unofficial Members, or Elected Members, by reason of the fact that:

(a) one person is lawfully discharging the functions of more than one of the ex officio Members; or

(b) a Nominated Official Member is lawfully discharging the functions of the office of an ex officio Member; or

(c) no person is lawfully discharging the functions of such an official; or

(d) a Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member is suspended from the exercise of his functions as a Member; or

(e) the seat of a Nominated Official Member or Nominated Unofficial Member is vacant for any cause other than a dissolution of the Council; or

(f) a Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of a declaration by the Governor, as provided in this Order, that he is incapable of discharging his functions as a Member; or

(g) a Member is absent from the Union; or

(i) a Nominated Unofficial Member is unable to sit or vote in the Council in consequence of his having been appointed temporarily to an office of emolument under the Crown in the Union or to act in any such office;

===== Page 514 =====
The Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint a person to be temporarily a Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) If the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as ex officio Members or Nominated Official Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as a Nominated Official Member; and if the vacancy is in the number of persons sitting in the Council as Nominated Unofficial Members, the person appointed shall be a person qualified for appointment as a Nominated Unofficial Member.

(3) A temporary appointment under this section shall cease to have effect on notification by the Governor to the person appointed of revocation by the Governor of the appointment or on supersession of the appointment by the definitive appointment of a person to fill the vacancy or when the vacancy shall cease to exist.

65. The Chairman, if present, or in the absence of the Chairman, such Member of the Council as the Resident Commissioner may from time to time appoint or, in default of such appointment, or in the absence of the Member so appointed, the Member present who stands first in order of precedence, shall preside at the meeting of the State Legislative Council and Settlement Councils.

66. (1) After the Chairman, the Members of each State Council and Settlement Council shall take precedence among themselves as the Governor may specially assign, and the default thereof as follows:

First the ex officio Members in the order in which they are mentioned in any law or regulation made pursuant to section 104 hereof;

Secondly, the Nominated Members and Elected Members according to the length of time during which they have been continuously Members of the Council; Members elected or appointed at the same time taking precedence.

===== Page 515 =====
Amongst themselves as the Resident Commissioner may assign.

(2) For the purposes of this section -
(a) When the State Council or Settlement Council is dissolved, Members elected at the ensuing elections shall be deemed to have been elected by virtue of those elections, and Nominated Members appointed to fill vacancies caused thereby shall be deemed to have been appointed, on the date on which the report of the first successful candidate for election is made to the Governor;

(b) Paragraph (a) of this sub-section shall apply to the Members elected or appointed to a State Council or Settlement Council as first constituted under this Order as if such elections or appointments were consequent upon a dissolution of the Council; and

(c) In ascertaining the period during which a person has continuously been an Elected Member or a Nominated Member of the Council no account shall be taken of any interval between the vacation by that person of his seat in the Council in consequence of the expiration of his tenure of office or a dissolution of the Council and the date of his re-election or re-appointment to fill a vacancy in the Council caused by that expiration of tenure or that dissolution.

67. (1) Whenever the seat of a Nominated Member becomes vacant, the vacancy shall be filled by appointment by the Governor.

(2) Whenever the seat of an Elected Member becomes vacant, a fresh election shall be held to fill the vacancy in accordance with section 104 of this Order.

===== Page 516 =====
Voting.
68. Save as otherwise provided in this Order, all questions proposed for decision in the Council shall be determined by a majority of the votes of the Members present and voting. The Chairman shall not have an original vote, but if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, he shall have a casting vote.

Assent to Bills. Disallowance of laws.
69. The provisions of sections 31 and 32 of this Order (which relate respectively to assent to Bills and disallowance of laws passed by the Legislative Council) shall apply to Bills and to laws passed by a State Council or Settlement Council.

Conflict.
70. In the event of any conflict between a law passed by any State Council or Settlement Council and any Ordinance of the Legislative Council, the provision of the Ordinance shall prevail.

Royal Instructions.
71. Subject to the provisions of this Order a State Council or Settlement Council shall, in the transaction of business and the passing of laws, conform as nearly as may be to the directions contained in any Instructions under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet which may from time to time be addressed to the Governor and to any instructions of the Governor under the Public Seal which may from time to time be addressed to the Resident Commissioner, in that behalf.

Standing Orders.
72. The provisions of sections 34, 36, 37 and 38 of this Order (which relate respectively to Standing Orders of the Legislative Council, the introduction of Bills in, sessions of, and Prorogation and dissolution of that Council) shall apply also to State Councils and Settlement Councils, and shall have effect as if the words "any State Council or Settlement Council" were substituted for the words "the Legislative Council" wherever those words appear.

Official Language.
73. (1) The official languages of each State Council shall be Malay and English.

(2) The official language of each Settlement Council shall be English.

===== Page 517 =====
PART VII. MALAY ADVISORY COUNCILS.

Establishment of Malay Advisory Councils

74. There shall be established for each of the Malay States a Council to be called the Malay Advisory Council.

Membership.

75. Each Malay Advisory Council shall consist of the Sultan as President and such Members as the Sultan, with the approval of the Governor, shall appoint.

Functions.

76. The functions of each Malay Advisory Council shall be:
(a) to advise the Sultan on all matters affecting the Mahommedan religion;
(b) to advise the Sultan on all matters which are referred to the Council by the Resident Commissioner with the approval of the Governor;
(c) subject as hereinafter mentioned to advise the Sultan in the enactment of laws, to have effect within the State concerned, on matters of Mahommedan religion.

Power to make laws on matters of Mahommedan religion.

77. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, it shall be lawful for the Sultan of each of the Malay States, with the advice of the Malay Advisory Council of such State, to enact laws relating solely to matters of Mahommedan religion excluding any matter involving the imposition, collection or remission of any tax or tithe.

(2) Such laws shall have effect only within the State concerned.

(3) No Bill enacted by a Sultan with the advice of a Malay Advisory Council shall become a law until the Governor shall have assented thereto and shall have signed the same in token of assent.

(4) The provisions of paragraph (3) of section 31 and of section 32 of this Order (which relate respectively to the date of coming into operation of laws passed by the Legislative Council and to disallowance by His Majesty of such laws) shall apply to laws enacted by a Sultan with the advice of a Malay Advisory Council.

===== Page 518 =====
Qualifications for Membership.

78. Subject to the provisions of this Order, any person who is a Malayan Union citizen of the age of twenty-one years or upwards shall be qualified to be a Member of a Malay Advisory Council, and no other person shall be qualified to be appointed or, having been so appointed, shall sit or vote in such Council.

Disqualification for Membership.

79. A person shall be disqualified for membership of a Malay Advisory Council for any reason which would cause disqualification for Unofficial Membership of the Legislative Council under the provisions of section 21 of this Order.

Tenure.

80. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, a Member of a Malay Advisory Council shall hold his seat in the Council during the pleasure of the Sultan of the State and, subject thereto, shall vacate his seat at the expiration of three years from the date of his appointment or on dissolution of the Council whichever is earlier, but, if qualified, shall be eligible for re-appointment.

(2) If any person is appointed temporarily a Member in accordance with the provisions of section 82 of this Order and such appointment is immediately followed by his definitive appointment as a Member, the said period of three years shall be reckoned from the date of his appointment as a temporary member.

Vacation of seats.

81. (1) The seat of a Member of a Malay Advisory Council shall become vacant upon the occurrence in relation to such Member of any event which, if it occurred in relation to a Nominated Unofficial Member of the Legislative Council, would cause the seat of such Member to become vacant under the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 21 of this Order:

Provided that references to the Governor in that sub-section shall be deemed to be references to the Sultan of the State concerned.

===== Page 519 =====
(2) Whenever the seat of a Member becomes vacant under the provisions of sub-section (1) of this section, the vacancy shall forthwith be reported to the Resident Commissioner in writing by the Clerk of the Council concerned.

(3) The Sultan of the State concerned may, with the approval of the Governor, declare any Member to be incapable of discharging his functions as a Member of the Council, and thereupon such Member shall not sit or vote in the Council until he is declared by the Sultan, with like approval, again to be capable of discharging his said functions.

(4) Any person vacating a seat as a Member of a Malay Advisory Council may, if qualified, be again appointed from time to time.

82. (1) Whenever the seat of a Member of a Malay Advisory Council is temporarily vacant, the Sultan may appoint a qualified person to be temporarily a Member for the period of such vacancy.

(2) Every such temporary appointment shall be reported to the Resident Commissioner by the Clerk of the Council and may (without prejudice to anything done thereunder) be disallowed by the Governor.

(3) A temporary appointment under this section shall cease to have effect on notification by the Sultan or the Resident Commissioner to the person appointed of disallowance by the Governor of the appointment or of supersession of the appointment by the definitive appointment of a person to fill the vacancy, or when the vacancy shall otherwise cease to exist.

83. The Sultan of the State concerned, or in the absence of the Sultan, such Member of the Council as the Sultan may from time to time appoint or, in default of such appointment or, in the absence of the Member so [POSSIBLY MISSING].

===== Page 520 =====
84. The Members of each Malay Advisory Council shall take precedence among themselves as the Sultan of the State concerned may assign.

85. Whenever the seat of a Member becomes vacant, the vacancy shall be filled by appointment by the Sultan with the approval of the Governor.

86. All questions proposed for decision in the Council shall be determined by a majority of the votes of the numbers present and voting. The President shall not have an original vote, but if upon any question the votes shall be equally divided, he shall have a casting vote.

87. In the event of any conflict between a law enacted by a Sultan with the advice of a Malay Advisory Council and an Ordinance of the Legislative Council the provisions of the Ordinance shall prevail.

88. Subject to the provisions of this Order, each Sultan and each Malay Advisory Council shall, in the transaction of business and enacting of laws, conform as nearly as may be to the directions contained in any Instructions under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet which may, from time to time, be addressed to the Governor and to any Instructions of the Governor under the Public Seal which may from time to time be addressed to the Sultan or President of the Council in that behalf.

89. The provisions of section 34 of this Order (which relate to Standing Rules and Orders of the Legislative Council) shall apply also to Malay Advisory Councils.

90. The official language of each Malay Advisory Council shall be Malay.

91. (1) The Sessions of each Malay Advisory Council shall be held at such times and places as the Sultan shall from time to time appoint.

===== Page 521 =====
(2) There shall be a session of the Council at least once every year, so that a period of twelve months shall not intervene between the last sitting in one session and the first sitting in the next session.

92. (1) The Sultan of any Malay State, with the approval of the Governor, may at any time prorogue or dissolve the Malay Advisory Council in his State.

(2) On dissolution, all Members shall vacate their seats and the Council shall be reconstituted by appointment in accordance with the provisions of this Order at such time within six months of every dissolution as the Sultan, with the approval of the Governor, shall appoint.

Quorum: 1/4

A Malay Advisory Council shall not be disqualified for the transaction of business by region.

===== Page 522 =====
PART VIII TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

93. Subject to anything to the contrary contained in this Order, the Governor may, by Proclamation in the Gazette, declare that any provision of this Part shall cease to have effect, and thereupon such provision shall cease to have effect accordingly on the date specified in the Proclamation.

94. (1) Until such time as section 15 and Parts III, IV, V, VI and VII of this Order shall come into operation, it shall be lawful for the Governor to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Union, and any such law may be made to operate retrospectively to any date prior to the appointed day.

(2) In making such laws the Governor shall consult the Advisory Council.

95. (1) The Advisory Council shall consist of the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary and such other persons as the Governor may, by Instrument under the Public Seal, appoint; and such persons shall hold their places in the said Council during the Governor's pleasure.

(2) The Governor alone shall be entitled to submit questions to the Advisory Council for their advice. The Governor may act in opposition to the advice given to him by the Members of the Advisory Council if he shall in any case deem it right so to do. In such case, it shall be competent to any Member of the Advisory Council to require that there be recorded on the Minutes the grounds of any advice.

===== Page 523 =====
(3) The Governor may regulate the procedure and practice of the Advisory Council in such manner as he shall see fit.

96. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Order, the existing laws shall, except in so far as the same shall, in their application to the Union or to any part thereof, be repealed, amended or otherwise affected by or under any Act of Parliament, Order of His Majesty in Council or any law made by the Legislature of the Union or by the Governor or other lawful authority under the provisions of this Order, continue to have effect in the Union or in that part thereof to which such law applied prior to the appointed day, but shall be construed subject to such modifications as may be necessary to bring them into conformity with the provisions of the principal Act and of this Order.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section, the existing laws until repealed, amended or otherwise affected as aforesaid, shall, in their application to any part of the Union, be construed, when the context admits, subject to the following modifications:

(a) References to the Colony of the Straits Settlements shall be construed as referring (but not exclusively) to the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang;

(b) References to the Federated Malay States shall be construed as references to the States of Negri Sembilan, Pahang, Perak and Selangor;

(c) References to the Governor, or to any official of the Colony of the Straits Settlements, or to the High Commissioner of the Malay States or to the Ruler of any Malay State or to

===== Page 524 =====
any authority or body formerly performing, or empowered or obliged to perform functions in the Straits Settlements or the Federated Malay States or any of the Malay States, shall be construed as references to the Governor, or to the corresponding official of the Union, or to the authority or body performing, or empowered or obliged to perform corresponding functions in the Union, as the case may be; and

(d) references to the Chief Justice or to any Court, Judge or Magistrate of the Straits Settlements or of the Federated Malay States or of any of the Malay States shall be construed as references to the Chief Justice or to the corresponding Court, Judge or Magistrate of the Union.

(3) The amendments specified in the second column of the Second Schedule to this Order shall be made in the Acts of Parliament and Orders in Council mentioned in the first column of that Schedule.

97. Subject to the provisions of this Order, nothing in this Order shall affect the validity or future operation of any lawful act done by any person or authority in the Union before the appointed day.

98. (1) All proceedings commenced before the 15th day of February 1942 in any Court of Justice in, or having jurisdiction in, the Union may be carried on in like manner as nearly as may be, as if this Order and the Act of 1946, had not been made or passed but in the corresponding Court of the Union, and any such proceeding may be amended in such manner as may appear necessary or proper in order to bring it into conformity with the provisions of the Act of 1946 and of this Order.

(2) All periods of limitation of actions, suits or other proceedings, whether they began to run before, on, or after the 15th day of February 1942, shall be treated

===== Page 525 =====
as having been suspended during a period commencing on the 15th day of February 1942 and ending on the day of 1943, or the appointed day.

99. The Supreme Court shall exercise full jurisdiction with respect to all crimes, offences and causes of action committed or arising before the appointed day within any of the Malay States or within the Settlement of Malacca or the Settlement of Penang or for which the offender might have been tried, or proceedings might have been had within any such State or Settlement, under the law in force in the said State in the Straits Settlements prior to the appointed day, and such jurisdiction shall be exercised in conformity with the law of the said State, or with the law of the Straits Settlements, as the case may be, in force in the State or Settlement concerned at the date when the crime or offence was committed or the cause of action arose and in accordance as nearly as may be, with the procedure in force in Courts constituted under this Order.

100. Military Courts established in the Malay Peninsula by the British Military Administration by virtue of any Proclamation made by, or under the authority of, the Supreme Allied Commander South East Asia Command, in which proceedings have been commenced and are pending at the date hereof shall be deemed to be special tribunals with jurisdiction to continue and conclude such proceedings, in accordance with such Proclamation after the appointed day and to issue valid warrants for the custody of prisoners and the carrying out of sentences. The powers and functions of a confirming authority or reviewing authority under any such Proclamation may be exercised by such person or persons as the Governor shall designate in that behalf.

i.e. the day on which the moratorium is lifted.

===== Page 526 =====
101 (1) Save as hereinafter provided, all property which, immediately before the appointed day, was vested in His Majesty, or in the Government of the Federated Malay States, or in the Ruler, or the Government of any of the Malay States, or in any officer of any such Government, for any of the purposes of any such Government, which will, after the appointed day, be a purpose of the Government of the Union, shall vest in His Majesty, or in the Government of the Union, or in the appropriate officer of that Government, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Union.

(2) Save as hereinafter provided, all property which, immediately before the appointed day, was vested in His Majesty in relation to His Government of the Straits Settlements or in such Government or in any officer of such Government solely for a purpose which will, after the appointed day, be a purpose of the Government of the Union in relation to the Settlement of Malacca or the Settlement of Penang or either of those Settlements, shall vest in His Majesty or in the Government of the Union or in the appropriate officer of that Government, as the case may be, for the purposes of the Government of the Union.

(3) Nothing in this section shall be taken to divest, transfer or vest property of any of the following descriptions which immediately prior to the appointed day was vested in His Majesty or in the Ruler of any of the Malay States, that is to say:

(a) any residence or estate held by, or in trust for, any Ruler for his personal use;

(b) property comprised in any Mohammedan religious endowment or waqf; or

(c) any property which may be declared to be excluded from the operation of this section by the Governor.

(4) The Governor may make regulations for determining in any case of doubt the person or body in whom property transferred by this section is vested, and generally for giving effect to this section, and may declare, in case of doubt whether any particular property is, or is not, excluded from the operation thereof.

===== Page 527 =====
(5) It shall be lawful for the Governor, with the approval of a Secretary of State, to make, and from time to time to vary, rescind or carry into effect arrangements with the Government of any territory which before the appointed day was included in the Straits Settlements but is not included in the Union, providing for the perfecting of any transfer of property effected by this section and for values to be assessed for such financial or other adjustment as may require to be made in consequence of any such transfer.

102. (1) All liabilities incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Federated Malay States or of the Government of any of the Malay States for any purpose which will, after the appointed day, be a purpose of the Government of the Union shall be deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Union.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, such liabilities shall include claims in respect of Loans issued, and Post Office Savings deposits received, by the Government of the Federated Malay States or the Government of any of the Malay States.

(3) Pensions, gratuities and other like allowances in respect of service under the Government of the Federated Malay States or the Government of any of the Malay States before the appointed day, whether awarded before or after that day, shall be liabilities deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Union.

(4) All liabilities incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Straits Settlements solely for a purpose which will, after the appointed day, be a purpose

===== Page 528 =====
A purpose of the Government of the Union in relation to the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang or either of them shall be deemed to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Union.

(5) It shall be lawful for the Governor, with the approval of a Secretary of State, to make, and from time to time to vary, rescind or carry into effect, arrangements with the Governor of any territory which before the appointed day was included in the Straits Settlements but is not included in the Union, for the payment to the Government of that territory from the funds of the Government of the Union, of contributions towards the sums necessary to defray such of the liabilities of the Government of the Straits Settlements as shall have been transferred by any Order in Council to the Government of that territory including liabilities for the service and repayment of loans, and War Savings Certificates issued by, and Post Office Savings Deposits received by, the Government of the Straits Settlements. Such contributions shall be proportionate to the share of such liabilities which is properly attributable to the Settlement of Malacca and the Settlement of Penang.

(6) Claims in respect of liabilities deemed, by virtue of this section to have been incurred by or on behalf of the Government of the Union which, if the Act of 1946 had not been passed, and this Order had not been made, might have been enforced against His Majesty in His Government of the Straits Settlements, or against the Government of the Federated Malay States or of any of the Malay States or against any officer of any such Government in his official capacity or against any department of any such Government in connection with the administration of the Settlement of Malacca or of the Settlement of Penang or of the Federated Malay States.

===== Page 529 =====
or of any Malay State, may be enforced in such manner as may be prescribed by the law of the Union or by any regulation made by the Governor under sub-section (7) of this section, against His Majesty in His Government of the Union or against the Government or the appropriate officer of the Government of the Union, as the case may be.

(7) The Governor may make regulations for determining in any case of doubt the person or body by or against whom claims may be enforced under this section and generally for giving effect thereto.

The provisions of the Act may be amended if laws are made under Part IV of the Ordinance.

===== Page 530 =====
PART IX MISCELLANEOUS

Oath of Allegiance.

103. Except for the purpose of enabling this section to be complied with, no Member shall sit or vote on any Council constituted by this Order until he shall have taken and subscribed before the Governor, or some person authorised by the Governor in that behalf, the Oath of Allegiance in the form set out in the First Schedule to this Order:

Provided that every person authorised by law to make an affirmation instead of taking an oath in legal proceedings may make such affirmation in like terms instead of the said oath.

104. (1) Provision may be made by any law of the Union enacted under this Order and, until such provision has been made, by regulations made by the Governor regulating any matter left by this Order to be regulated by local law or by regulations made by the Governor.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-section, provision may be made regulating the election of Elected Members to any State Council or Settlement Council constituted by this Order including provision for regulating any of the following matters, that is to say:

(a) the persons, associations or bodies by whom elections are to be made;
(b) the holding of elections;
(c) the qualifications of voters;
(d) the registration of voters;
(e) the ascertainment of the qualifications of voters or candidates;
(f) offences in relation to elections including the trial and punishment thereof; and

===== Page 531 =====
(g) The disposal of election petitions and the determination of questions otherwise arising regarding membership of the Councils.

(3) Such regulations shall be published in the Gazette; and thereafter every such regulation shall take effect on the day of publication or on such other date as may be therein specified and shall have the force of law, subject to any revocation or amendment thereof by subsequent regulation or law.

105. Any person who

(a) having been elected or appointed a member of any Council constituted by this Order, but not having been at the time of such election or appointment, qualified to be so elected or appointed shall sit or vote in such Council; or

(b) shall sit or vote in such Council after his seat therein has become vacant or he has become disqualified from sitting or voting therein;

knowing, or having reasonable grounds for knowing, that he was so disqualified, or that his seat has become vacant, as the case may be, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding twenty pounds for every day upon which he so sits or votes.

(2) The said penalty shall be recoverable by action in the Supreme Court at the suit of the Attorney General.

106. No Council constituted by this Order shall be disqualified from the transaction of business by reason of any vacancy among the Members, or by reason of the sitting or voting therein, of any unqualified or disqualified person.

===== Page 532 =====
107. The High Court shall have jurisdiction in all matters involving the interpretation of the Constitution.

108. (1) If any difficulty shall arise in bringing into operation any of the provisions of this Order or in giving effect to the purposes thereof, a Secretary of State may, by Order, make such provision as seems to him necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing the difficulty and may by such Order amend or add to any provision of this Order:

Provided that no Order under this section shall be made later than the first day of January, 1949.

(2) Any Order under this section may be amended, added to, or revoked by a further Order, and may be given retrospective effect to a day not earlier than the 15th day of February 1942.

(3) This section shall come into operation on the appointed day.

109. Nothing in this Order shall affect the power of His Majesty in Council to make laws from time to time for the peace, order and good government of the Colony.

NB Reservation from James Lamer as well as from the Order in the Act of 1946.

===== Page 533 =====
FIRST SCHEDULE
OATH OF ALLEGIANCE

(Sections 6 and 103)

I, ... do swear that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to His Majesty King George VI, His Heirs and Successors, according to Law. So help me God.

OATH FOR THE DUE EXECUTION
OF THE OFFICE OF GOVERNOR.

I, ... do swear that I will well and truly serve His Majesty King George VI, His Heirs and Successors, in the Office of Governor. So help me God.

===== Page 534 =====
THE STRAITS SETTLEMENTS ORDER, 1946.

AT THE COURT AT
THE DAY OF 1946.

PRESENT

THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY IN COUNCIL.

WHEREAS by the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Act, 1945 (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act") it is, among other things, provided that on such day as His Majesty may by Order in Council appoint (in the principal Act and in this Order referred to as "the appointed day") the Straits Settlements Act, 1866 shall be thereby repealed and the Straits Settlements, that is to say the territories mentioned in the Schedule to the principal Act, shall cease to be a single colony and on and after the appointed day each of the said territories shall be governed as His Majesty may by Order in Council direct:

AND WHEREAS by the principal Act it is further provided that the British Settlements Acts 1887 and 1945 (which authorise His Majesty to make laws and establish institutions for British Settlements as defined in those Acts) shall apply in relation to each of the said territories as if it were a British Settlement as so defined, so however that no instrument under those Acts relating to any of the said territories shall come into operation before the appointed day:

AND WHEREAS it is expedient to bring into operation the principal Act, to the intent that laws may be made and institutions established for the said territories:

NOW THEREFORE His Majesty, in exercise of the powers conferred on Him by the principal Act and of all other powers enabling Him in that behalf, is pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council, to order, and it is hereby ordered, as follows:-

===== Page 535 =====
1. This Order may be cited as the Straits Settlements Order in Council, 1946.

2. The day of 1946 shall be the appointed day and as from that day the principal Act shall come into operation.

===== Page 536 =====
The image provided is too blurry and low-resolution to accurately recognize any text. It appears to be a blank or very blurry background with no discernible content.

===== Page 537 =====
Future Policy in Malaya. Constitutional Instruments. 1946. MS Records of the British Colonial Office CO 273/675/14. The National Archives (Kew, United Kingdom). State Papers Online Colonial, link.gale.com/apps/doc/RTZWUX325505248/SPOC?u=nuslib&sid=bookmark-SPOC&xid=97cfead5. Accessed 1 Mar. 2026.

Gale Document Number: GALE|RTZWUX325505248

