===== Page 1 =====
SECRET EASTERN STRAITS
No. 50823/6
SUBJECT CO 273/675
CLOSED UNTIL 1972
FUTURE POLICY MALAYA
NEW CONSTITUTION
CO 273/675/11
Previous
55104/11/0/44
Subsequent
CO 273/675

FILE C
D4.737321 2M 8/70 XLY3753

===== Page 2 =====
The image provided is too blurry and low-resolution to accurately recognize any text. Therefore, no text can be extracted from this image.

===== Page 3 =====
DEFENCE AND GENERAL

CO 273/015/111
FUTURE POLICY IN MALAYA
CONSTITUTION.

CLOSED UNTIL 1997

Previous
50823/6/45.

Subsequent

TOP SECRET
SPECIAL CARE SHOULD BE TAKEN TO MAINTAIN THE SECRECY OF THE DOCUMENTS ON THIS FILE. THEY SHOULD BE LOCKED IN A SHELF PRESS OVERNIGHT AND CIRCULATED BY HAND AT ALL STAGES.

FILE A.

===== Page 4 =====
The image provided is too blurry and low-resolution to accurately recognize any text. Therefore, no text can be extracted from this image.

===== Page 5 =====
Mr. Paskin.

In handing me the papers now registered at 1 and 2, Mr. Gent instructed me to put them on the file relating to our future constitutional policy for Malaya. Since the correspondence mentions Force 136 fairly freely, I have had a special MS annex of our Constitutional file created.

I have not gone to the length of attaching the Constitutional file itself, since it is wanted in another connection. I think the present correspondence is self-explanatory, and I do not think any further action is required on it. We know from our latest meetings with him that Colonel Purcell has studied Colonel Willan's note, and that he is inclined to attach too much importance to this additional reason for creating a Malayan Union. Colonel Purcell, indeed, does not think a great deal of the coherence, size and effectiveness of the various resistance movements in Malaya.

? Put by.

A.T. Bausdilla

25.6.45.

===== Page 6 =====
1. H. B. Willan 11.1.45

Mr. Boundell

B/4 with your mind of 6/11/45 on 55109/16

2. H. B. Willan 20.11.45

3. Do H. B. Willen - 20.11.45

4. H. B. Willen 22.1.45

5. H. B. Willen 26.1.45

Mr. Hastings 1/2/45
Mr. Duncan 1/3/45
Mr. Gent

It has now been agreed that there will be a further discussion about the Malayan Constitution in Mr. Gent's room at 11 o'clock on Friday, February 9th, and that the main subject of the discussion will be the revisions to Colonel Willan's earlier memorandum which are to be found behind No. 2.

I now circulate the file, in order to remind those concerned of the time of the meeting and to give them an opportunity of having one more look at the papers.

I would draw attention to No. 5, which is new. This will doubtless form part of our discussion on Friday week, and I have had spare copies inserted at the back of the file. Will everybody concerned please take one, and return the file to me as soon as possible? I will then keep the papers for the meeting, and show them to Mr. Paskin if he is back from sick leave.

A. T. Bardine

31.1.45

The meeting has now been postponed to Friday Feb. 23. B. w in a week from today.

A. T. B. 1/2 at age

===== Page 7 =====
Re your minute of 30.11.44 on 55104/11/44 attached, do you know what has become of Mr. Duncan's minute, mentioned therein?

Y. B. Boyle
7/2/45

No. I assume that Mr. Paskin detached it and had it registered separately at the time. We need not trouble further.

A. T. B. Yor.

B/11 vide your minute of 7/2/45

Y. B. Boyle
14/2/45

Mr. Gent.

On Monday the 26th of January, the latest version of Col. Willan's memorandum about the future Malayan Constitution (see enclosure to No.2) was considered at a meeting in your room. The meeting was attended by yourself, Sir Harold MacMichael, Mr. Duncan, Mr. Paskin, Mr. Hastings and myself, as well as by Col. Newboult, Col. McKerron and Col. Willan on behalf of the M.P.U.

At the end of the meeting, it was agreed that Col. Willan would revise his memorandum as quickly as possible in the light of the discussions (covering also the points made in No.5 hereon), and would have 250 copies of the revised edition rolled off. He would send us copies, and we would then submit the memorandum to the Secretary of State together with a covering note, which would set out the various points which cannot be included in the memorandum itself, but which nevertheless need to be covered. These points, which concern procedure, timings etc. rather than the actual subject matter of the new proposals, were evolved in the course of our discussions.

The revised memorandum has not yet arrived, but I felt it would be as well to get along with the draft covering note as quickly as possible. I therefore submit a very tentative effort opposite. I am sending the papers straight to you in the first instance, so that you can see my effort before it goes any further. I imagine that you will want to discuss the draft at a further meeting, but perhaps this should await the arrival of the latest version of the memorandum, which is promised.

===== Page 8 =====
In the next few days.

H.T. Bardike 5/3.

Revised Draft Note of submission to L.F. 345.

This is an excellent basis, and the amount is 7½ to 8½, to raise 873 to the result.

Mr. Dmean (2) made the Atter General this morning to seek his opinion on possible extra courses which he added to (a) or (b) from 13, and his suggestion then written to Patrick, I.O., as in any heretofore.

Sir D. Somerville said he would like to look at a copy of the draft raise, if not washed. Mr. Dmean would have one, but no known whatsoever.

He is suggesting any additional functions which he admitted.

9-3 Dr. Gentle.

===== Page 9 =====
The memorandum at (6) was discussed on the afternoon of the 13th March between representatives of the Colonial Office, and representatives of the Malayan Planning Unit, and Sir Harold MacMichael. Revisions in the memorandum were agreed upon, as well as the addition of a new paragraph 14. Since the meeting Mr. Gent has:

(a) drafted a new paragraph 14;

(b) instructed me to insert a further paragraph, recapitulating the main point on which the decision is required by the Secretary of State;

(c) instructed me to summarise Col. Willan's memorandum in its final form (see No.11).

I have taken action accordingly and I now attach the covering note as finally revised with its two appendices - Appendix A is the full memorandum and Appendix B is the summary. We thus now have, as a composite document, the complete set of papers for submission to the Secretary of State. Five spare copies are available in my room.

R. T. Bardillan
15. 3. 45.

Spoken again to Mr Gent, and whose instructions I have sent copies of the "composite document" to Mr Pastin, Mr Duncan and Mr Caine for their final comments. Subject to these, the document is now ready for submission to the S. of S.

B. c. to me in red on Monday morning. (19. 3.)

===== Page 10 =====
13. Sir Donald Somervell
19/3/45
12.3.45

14. Sir Donald Somervell - Daniel - 15.3.45

15. H.B. Willis CA (M.P.U.) +5/13/CA (13.P.U.)

16. Note by Mr. Duncan
16.3.45

17. P.J. Patrici - J.O. — 17.3.45

18. Yo P.K. Patrici - J.O. — 17.3.45

Sir G. Gater.
Secretary of State.

No. 12. In pursuance of the War Cabinet's policy directive on Malaya for the guidance of Planners, the Malayan Planning Unit (and particularly Colonel Willan their chief legal expert) and ourselves have been engaged in the considerable task of outlining a future constitution for the Malayan Union.

This Outline is Appendix A in No. 12. Annexed to it is a summary of its main features - Appendix B.

In its final stages the Outline has been discussed with Sir Harold MacMichael in view of the bearing which it has on his own task of convincing the Malay Rulers to cede jurisdiction to H.M. in their respective States. It will naturally occur to those Rulers to ask what H.M. proposes to do, when he has such jurisdiction, in the matter of a future constitution for Malaya, and Sir H. MacMichael must obviously be familiar with those plans which will need to be implemented in final and constitutional form ready to come into operation as soon as the period of military administration gives way to Civil Government.

In agreement with Sir H. MacMichael the covering memorandum has been compiled which completes

===== Page 11 =====
The picture by relating the whole project to his own initial task of securing from the Rulers the powers necessary for the effective introduction of the new constitution. The points in this covering memorandum are summarised in its last paragraph but I think I may say that the principal point is the importance of H.M.G. being firm in its resolve that H.M. should obtain jurisdiction in the Malay States so that H.M.G. may introduce a new constitutional order for the unity of Malaya. Sir H. MacMichael is convinced, and the Department agrees with him, that any appearance of hesitation or room for argument on that point will seriously risk the success of his mission to the Rulers who, like other Orientals, may be expected to probe for any opportunity for argument or delay in making up their minds. Such a firm resolve, however, will not necessarily mean that H.M.G. must commit itself to the details of the constitutional scheme now submitted, but the need for having a fresh constitution completed and ready in legal shape before the military period comes to an end, whether on the lines now submitted or on other lines which H.M.G. may prefer, is certain, and we have now no more time than is necessary for drafting all the necessary Instruments. I suggest that the Secretary of State may like to discuss this paper with the Department, Colonel Newboult and Colonel Willan of the M.P.U. (in General Hone's present absence in the Far East), and Sir Harold MacMichael, before the last named goes off in about three weeks' time to S.E.A.C. headquarters.

S. G. A.

I have read the coming note, but have had no time to study it to new Constitution.

I am unable to discuss with them concerned after Easter.

F. G.

I am sorry my absence has been the cause of delay.

I have had an opportunity to discuss with them my important documents and questions.

===== Page 12 =====
I submit (No. 19) a draft note of the discussion with the S.F.S. on 9/5. The next step, if the S.F.S. opposes the note, will be to send a copy to Col. William H. in concert with him to proceed with the further examination of the matters referred to in the Note.

9/5. 11/5.

I agree with this draft mind of the commission.

As regards "State" properties — palaces, Mosques etc., we are studying the State lists. "Constituencies" will to a large extent depend on how far population (of refractory Chinese miners or Indian Rubber laborers) has been displaced as a result of new conditions — the actual delimitation of "constituencies" will ordinarily be a matter for a separate local commission.

===== Page 13 =====
Para 9. (H.M.G.) from residence to put the policy through may be affected by the imminent pressure from SAESEA for publication in their nothing.

We are getting on with the rise of the Memorandum on the points directed by the S.N.S.

W. Grant.
18/5/45

I have nothing to add.
(I am sorry I was not told that the discussion with the S. of S. — No. 19 — which was originally fixed for 5 p.m. on Monday, May 7, and subsequently postponed, was to take place on Wednesday, May 9, the second VE holiday, as I should like to have been present).

19/5/45 A.D.

W. Grant 12/5

Thought that there was some discussion of the H.M. Mactheland's proposal that in form government should be encouraged in the name of the suffrants.

22.6

===== Page 14 =====
M. Packin
To the M.V. Territory will include parts of the Shanty Settle. It will be inappropriate for the Central East to be carried on nominally under the authority of the Sultans.

But I do not mistreat any concern of the Sultan in favor of such a conception.

M. Packin
28.3

No. I have no recollection of this point having been mentioned in our treaty with the S.g.s. I entirely agree.

===== Page 15 =====
Mr. Paskin

I spoke to Sir George Gater about this. He agreed so far as the Government of the future Malayan Unions is concerned, but thought that there was some inconclusive discussion going on on the basis of local State Governments being carried on as far as possible in the name of the Sultans. Paragraph 4 of the note requires us to give further consideration to the maintenance of a Sultan's position in public matters in his State in which he can be expected to have a personal interest and the importance of maintaining his "face" in respect of his Malay Advisory Council was stressed. We must consider whether in the more general aspects of Government a nominal, at least, form of ostensible authority can be preserved for the Sultans.

As Colonel Willan has now left, we ought to make headway with revising the note of constitutional proposals with the help of Mr. O'Connor and Mr. Hastings. Can you arrange another meeting please?

26th May, 1945

===== Page 16 =====
In Mr. Gent's unavoidable absence, Mr. Duncan, Mr. Paskin, Mr. Hastings, and myself discussed this on Wednesday of last week, assisted by Mr. O'Connor of the Malayan Planning Unit.

Almost the whole of our discussion was devoted to the position of the Sultans. The results may be tabulated as follows:

(a) Civil Lists (see paragraph 4 of No.13). The various State estimates show that in the past these have varied slightly from year to year in South States. The conclusion of our discussion was that this was a point on which generosity would be greatly to our advantage, and that the highest pre-1942 figure should be taken as a minimum in dealing with the future. That is to say, Sir Harold MacMichael should be empowered, in negotiating with the Sultans, to tell them that the highest pre-1942 figure would be allocated to them henceforward as a fixed annual grant. He should also be empowered, however, to promise a higher annual sum, at his own discretion, in the case of any individual Sultans if he regarded such a step as necessary in order to ensure the success of the negotiations.

(b) State property (see paragraph 3 of No.13). Before the meeting took place, I had already endeavoured to obtain the basis for a list of such State properties as might be excluded from the general transfer to the central government of the Union. I had met with no success. The State estimates are valueless in this respect since, for obvious reasons, they only make specific reference to such property when it becomes an individual object of expenditure. Besides consulting these estimates, I had spoken to Mr. Watherston of the Malayan Planning Unit, who had expressed the opinion that a complete list for any of the States would be quite unobtainable except on the spot. I have called for the back files dealing with the rebuilding of the Sultans' palaces in certain of the States, but I am very doubtful whether these will give me what is needed. They will no doubt contain relevant information, but this information will not be comprehensive, and it seems to me that a list of the kind desired must be comprehensive in order to be of any value at all. At the meeting I reported my failure to make any progress in this matter, and it was decided to submit to higher authority the suggestion that we should consult Sir Theodore Adams (a prominent ex-resident) and Mr. S.W. Jones (who had been Federal Secretary before becoming Colonial Secretary, Straits Settlements). It was felt that we could safely ask these gentlemen for information on the subject without disclosing our reasons; if the results were successful, we could consult other retired residents, of whom there are a number still living in this country. I now submit the suggestion as agreed at the meeting, but I must confess to a personal feeling that we may be rather wasting our time. The gentlemen whom we consult will only be able to speak from memory, and the information they give us will be at best eclectic. As I have said above, I think the lists must be comprehensive if they are to serve any real purpose. Moreover, I should be inclined to doubt the value of actual lists of the property in each State which might be excluded from transfer. What we want for our purposes (and I am wondering whether this is not what the Secretary of State had in mind) is surely a general statement of the kinds of State properties which would be suitable for exclusion. If it is decided that this is what we are really after, I think the answer can be given with little or no research. I suggest that the properties which we wish to exclude from transfer are the residences and estates of the Sultans themselves, the residences and estates of their relatives and dependants, and any buildings

===== Page 17 =====
and lands which are used for religious purposes. (We are of course only concerned with such property insofar as it is State property and not private property; in the latter event, the question of transfer does not arise).

(c) Functions (See paragraphs 4 and 5 of No.13 and immediately preceding minutes). We felt that it would be impracticable for the future administration of Malaya (either in matters affecting the central legislature or in those affecting the State Councils) to be conducted even nominally in the name of the Sultans. The fundamental objection to this is surely that it is just what happened in the past, and is just what we are trying to get away from. Even in the past the control exercised by the Sultans was purely nominal, in that they were bound to accept the advice of the Resident or the Adviser. But this nominal control, while it was powerless to do positive harm, nevertheless represented a dissipation of authority and a bar to progress; and it is precisely those disadvantages which the present proposals are designed to overcome. While we were convinced, however, that it would be impossible to preserve for the Sultans even a nominal control over the whole field of Government, we came definitely to the conclusion that in matters affecting their traditional position vis-a-vis their subjects - namely, Mohammedan religion and Malay customs - the final authority of the Sultans should be preserved not only in name but in fact. I feel sure that this view, which is in accordance with the expressed views of Colonel Newboult, and which received the strong support of Mr. O'Connor at the meeting, is correct. In the existing treaties, Mohammedan religion and Malay customs are expressly named as subjects on which the Sultans need not accept the advice of the British Resident or Adviser. The maintenance of the Sultans' final authority in these matters will in no way impair the working of the new constitution. On the other hand, it is a point on which the Sultans may be expected to insist more than on any other, since it so closely affects their personal prestige. In considering the implications of the proposals, we reached the conclusion that the suggested authority on matters of customs and religion should be exercised in their separate States by the individual Sultans in Council, and not by the Sultans as a body. I think this follows from the fact that custom varies widely from State to State. The result would be, of course, that the Advisory Councils to the Sultans, which are to be established in each State, would cease to be advisory on matters of Mohammedan religion and Malay customs, and would become sovereign legislative bodies in this limited field. On paper, this complicates the situation considerably, since there will be two separate legislative bodies in each State, neither of them owning the authority of the other. The respective spheres of responsibility will, however, be clearly demarcated, and no complications should arise in practice.

As stated at the beginning of this minute, the position of the Sultans took up the greater part of our discussion. But we also considered the possibility (see paragraph 6 of No.13) of defining more closely the constituencies which would send members to the new Legislative Council. On this point, we endorsed Mr. Gent's view, expressed in his minute of 18/5, that the demarcation of these constituencies will, to a large extent, depend on how far populations (especially Chinese miners and Indian rubber labourers) have been displaced as a result of war conditions, and that in the meanwhile further definition is not possible.

===== Page 18 =====
If the conclusions of our discussion, as recorded above, are approved, I think the first action will be to amend Colonel Willan's memorandum accordingly, and to consult Sir Theodore Adams and Mr. F.S. Jones about State property (if this is considered worthwhile). As soon as the memorandum has been revised (or even concurrently?), I think we should set about preparing the first draft of a memorandum which Sir Harold MacMichael could show to the Sultans (see paragraph 10 of 13), and by means of which he could acquaint them with our main constitutional proposals and above all reassure them on the maintenance of their personal prestige.

A. T. Bardilea
6.6.45.

I have nothing to add to this record of a discussion.

7/6/43 A.D.

I shall submit the conclusions at A. B. S.C.

On B. I will review consultation of latter with Sir T. Adams.

On A. I can attach a list of the enquiries in each case at the highest level to show in any case whether they were reduced at any time - 1942 date.

Sir Grant
7/6

P.T.O.

===== Page 19 =====
As regards State property, I have consulted Mr. Cator, without in any way revealing the purpose of the enquiry. In view of Mr. Paskin's and Mr. Gent's agreement with my view that we want a general statement of types of property suitable for exclusion, rather than a specific list of property in each State, I confined myself to this more general basis in speaking to Mr. Cator. He appreciated the point very readily, and said he would turn it over in his mind. He promised to let us have his comments in a few days, and I will record these when I receive them.

In the matter of civil lists, the following is a list as requested by Mr. Gent. It is a list of the personal emoluments of the Sultan or comparable personage in each State.

Perak.

The highest figure was $180,000, which prevailed in 1938. It was reduced in 1939 to $150,000, and remained at the lower level.

Selangor.

The highest figure was $165,000 (1938). Reduced in 1939 to $135,000, and remained thereafter at the lower level.

Negri Sembilan.

Constant at $75,000.

Pahang.

Constant at $96,000.

Johore.

Constant at $240,000.

Kedah.

The highest figure was $91,000 (1937 and earlier). Reduced thereafter to $84,000, and remained at the lower level.

Perlis.

$24,000 (constant).

Trengganu.

Constant at $72,000.

Kelantan

Constant at $60,000.

===== Page 20 =====
I suggest that the file should now be sent forward to the Secretary of State for approval or otherwise of the conclusions of our meeting. We will then be able to get ahead with the action outlined in the last paragraph of my minute of 6/6/45 above.

H. T. Bourdillon
8.6.45.

Sir G. Gater.

I was able to have a word with Mr. Gent about this today. He agrees generally with the proposals recorded in Mr. Bourdillon's minute of the 6th of June, of which those in paragraph (c) "Functions" are the most important from the political point of view. Mr. Gent agreed that we might well be able to devise a system whereby each Sultan in his "Advisory" Malay Council (which to this extent would no longer be "advisory") should be the legislative authority in each State for matters of Malay custom and religion. We should, of course, have to devise a further bit of machinery to ensure that no legislative acts of that Council infringe on the functions of the superior legislative body, but that will not be a matter of difficulty.

As to the next step, we suggest that, before these revised proposals are submitted to the Secretary of State, we should be authorised to discuss them with Sir H. MacMichael himself who will be due to arrive here in the near future.

W. Pattin.

Signed on consultation with Sir H. MacMichael as a first step. I am not satisfied with the line of argument in Mr. Bourdillon's minute about the position of the Sultan. I agree of course with the proposal that the Sultan should be the legislative authority on matters of Malay.

===== Page 21 =====
Certain and relevant, but I am not yet convinced that the British cannot be given a nominal position in the wider field of State administration outside certain and relevant matters. I cannot, however, pass the point now, as Sir H. MacMichael is likely to return to it in his return.

Mr. Pastin has spoken to me. Due to Mr. Gent, to see on Monday next. If he will then pass the papers to me, I will see that they are brought up again at Sir H. MacMichael's arrival.

A. T. B. 12/6 at age

20. G. B. Cator 13.6.45
21. To G. B. Cator 21.6.45.

I am circulating this file to inform those concerned that I have now arranged a meeting with Sir Harold MacMichael to discuss this subject, at 3:00 o'clock on Thursday the 28th of June. The meeting will take place in Mr. Gent's room.

In the meanwhile, there seems no purpose in minuting further at any length, since the present position is fully set out in the previous minutes. I should, however, perhaps draw attention to No. 20, which is Mr. Cator's response to my oral enquiry (see X of my minute of 8/6 above). I think Mr. Cator's letter is useful. It gives us some additional concrete information, but at the same

===== Page 22 =====
Same time, I think, confirms our feelings that a definition of the general categories of property to be exempted from transfer is all that can be hoped for or desired at the present stage.

I have replied to Mr. Cator as in the attached flimsy.

These papers should return to me as soon as they have been circulated.

H.T. Baurdillen
21.6.45.

See, thank you.
22/6/45 H.D.

Mr. Cator, ref. is interested in pertaining only his remarks about the extent of an ordinance.

B.u. at next meeting with Sir H. Paskin

B.u. to me Thursday morning.

H.T. B.
26

This was discussed further on the afternoon of Thursday, June the 28th, between Mr. Gent, Sir H. MacMichael, Sir H. Duncan, Mr. Paskin, Mr. Hastings and myself.

The major part of our discussions was taken up with the position of the Sultan in the new Malayan Constitution. In this connection, Sir H. MacMichael reverted to the suggestion that the Sultan should be given a nominal position in the whole field of State Administration (see Sir G. Gater's minute of 12/6), but only to say that he was now satisfied that this proposal was not practicable. He had

===== Page 23 =====
Apparently discussed the matter with General Hone and Colonel Willan during his recent trip to the East, and had been persuaded by them that it was an integral part of the new proposal that the Sultan should be removed even from nominal control. Colonel Willan in particular had been insistent that the retention by the Sultans of nominal control would strike at the root of the whole proposals. It was impossible to state as a matter of form that State legislation would in future require the assent of the Sultans, without such assent being required in fact. This would undermine the authority of the new central legislature, and would thus endanger the conception of the Malayan Union as a whole.

We then examined the more limited proposal (see section C in my minute of 6/6/45) that the Sultans should remain the legislative authority on matters of Mohammedan religion and Malay custom. Difficulty was at once seen in any suggestion that the Sultans, in legislating on these matters, should be subject to no control by the Governor. The suggestion recorded in my minute referred to above was indeed to this effect, but discussion revealed that this proposal would be likely to create acute problems. In this connection, the letter from Mr. Cator at No. 20 is very relevant. Mr. Cator points out that Malay custom is not a body of fixed rules but is highly elastic. Its field, in fact, is comprehensive and ill-defined. Sir H. MacMichael, from his experience of other Mohammedan countries, said the same thing about Mohammedan law. This means that the Sultans, in legislating on matters of Malay custom and Mohammedan religion, would be likely to trespass again and again into the sphere of ordinary administration, with unpredictable results, unless some control were maintained over their activities. It was felt, therefore, that the Governor must maintain ultimate control over the Sultans legislative authority. The next question was to consider what form this control should take.

Here it was felt that the Advisory Council of Sultans, which is to be set up under the new Constitution with the Governor as its President, could play a very useful role. After some discussion, it was agreed that the Governor's assent should be required before the enactments of any of the Sultans became law, and that the Governor should not merely exercise a power of disallowance (in the latter event, of course, the enactments would become law immediately upon promulgation, and would only be nullified in the event of disallowance in individual cases). Before granting or refusing his assent, the Governor would in all cases consult his Advisory Council of Sultans.

The picture thus built up is as follows. On matters exclusively concerned with Mohammedan religion and Malay custom, the Sultans would legislate in the individual States. In doing so, they

===== Page 24 =====
They would use the Advisory Councils provided in each State, which for these purposes would become more than merely advisory bodies. Legislation resulting from this system would not immediately become law but would be submitted to the Governor for his assent. The Governor would in no case grant or refuse his assent without consulting his Advisory Council of Sultans, though he would not be bound to accept their advice. At first sight, it might appear that this scheme tends to deprive the Sultans of such power as proposed in the suggestions recorded in my minute of 6/6 to leave in their hands. However, it was felt that the safeguard of ultimate control by the Governor was necessary. Moreover, this modification of the proposal to leave matters of Mohammedan religion and lay customs in the hands of the Sultans had a great positive advantage, as it gave some reality to the deliberation of the Governor's Advisory Council of Sultans, which would otherwise be little more than a façade.

Other less important matters were also discussed. Sir H. MacMichael made a pertinent point about the temporary body that is to precede the establishment of a properly constituted Legislative Council. The relevant passage in Colonel Willan's Memorandum (pages 26 and 27 of Appendix A to No.12) reads as follows:

"When Military Administration ceases and the new Civil Government is established in the Malay Peninsula, it will be impossible for that Government to set up a Legislative Council immediately. To cover the interregnum between the end of the Military Administration and the setting up of a Legislative Council, the new constitution should specifically provide for the establishment of an Advisory Council to the Governor which would temporarily take the place of a Legislative Council. This Advisory Council should consist of an unspecified number of official and unofficial members."

Sir Harold MacMichael pointed out that this passage did not make it clear whether the Advisory Council was in fact to be a Legislative body or not. He had consulted Colonel Willan on the point, and the latter, while admitting the wording was obscure, maintained that the Advisory Council should indeed be a Legislative body. Sir Harold maintained the opposite view. During the initial period, all responsibility would rest on the Governor's shoulders. In these circumstances, it was only right that he should have the power also. The meeting agreed with this view, and I was instructed to revise the wording of the passage in question. I suggest the following revision:

"When Military Administration ceases and the new Civil Government is established in the Malay Peninsula, it will be impossible for that Government to set up a Legislative Council immediately. During the interregnum between the end of the Military Administration and the setting up of a Legislative Council."

===== Page 25 =====
Council, the Governor alone will be responsible for Legislation, but the new Constitution should specifically provide for the establishment of an Advisory Council to assist him in this task. The Governor would normally consult this Advisory Council before enacting Legislation but would not be bound to accept the Council's advice. The Council should consist of an unspecified number of official and unofficial members.

Other points which we discussed arose out of Mr. Cator's letter at No. 20. These may be enumerated as follows:

(a) We agreed with Mr. Cator that the Sultan's right of Legislation in matters of Mohammedan religion and Malay customs must not extend to the collection of taxes or tithes, since this would lead to a pernicious system of double taxation.

(b) We felt that Mr. Cator's letter confirmed our previous impression that it would be impossible to draw up a neat and comprehensive list of the kinds of property to be excluded from transfer to Union ownership. The most that could be achieved would be a general statement of the kinds of State property which would be suitable for exclusion. Section of my minute of 6/6 cites the residencies and estates of the Sultans themselves, the residencies and estates of their relatives and dependants, and any buildings and land which are used for religious purposes. I think this is still about as near as we can get to the correct classification, though it was agreed at the meeting that we must be careful to limit the term "relatives and dependants" to include only those in the Sultan's immediate circle. In this connection, Sir Harold MacMichael stressed the importance of not giving any commitments to the Sultans which would prevent the Service authorities from taking control of property which they might require at some later date for strategic purposes. This point must clearly be borne in mind, but I think it was felt that its importance could be overstressed in this immediate connection. We are seeking to define the types of property which can be excluded from transfer to ownership by Malayan Union. The fact that such property would remain State property, or would remain at the disposal of the Sultans, would not mean that it would pass irrevocably out of the control of the Service authorities.

===== Page 26 =====
Position in this respect would be no worse than in the past, when all property had been State property, and when the Service authorities had not found cause for complaint.

(c) Agreement was expressed with Mr. Cator's view that in assuring the continuation of the Sultan's emoluments, these should be divided into two parts consisting first of the Sultan's personal allowance, and secondly of provision for his family. The importance of limiting the interpretation of the word "family" to the Sultan's immediate circle was stressed, and it was felt, as Mr. Cator had suggested, that the money should be held by trustees and should be carefully tied up as to capital and interest.

If the conclusions embodied in the above minute are approved, the first thing to do will be to get out a revised memorandum of Constitutional proposals. I hardly think we need revise Colonel Willan's Memorandum as such. This is rather lengthy, and the earlier pages of it are devoted to a recitation of past events and statements. I suggest that we should aim at a much shorter Memorandum (somewhat on the lines of Appendix B to No.12), which should embody the main Constitutional proposals with the latest amendments. This document could then serve as a basis for later documents - e.g. the Order-in-Council itself and the explanatory memorandum which could be handed to the Sultan (see last sentence of my minute of 6/6/45).

A. T. Boudillie
30.6.45.

Subject to my pencil amendments at X+ Yaton, I have no observations to make with regard to Mr. Boudillie's record of the discussion on June 28.

2/7/45

Nor - I agree that these were the conclusions, we should not delay before chatting Q & A to the submission to the Sultan.

S. G.

===== Page 27 =====
I now submit a draft Memorandum as directed by Mr. Gent on 4/7/45. I am afraid this has taken a little time, but the matter is not a simple one, and there has been a great deal of other work recently.

R.T. Bardilla

20.7.45.

I have suggested a few amendments in this note.

9/90. 24/7.

Except from my two preliminary notes, there is no other intention to make an attached draft Memorandum.

26/7/45 11.0.

===== Page 28 =====
The new policy for Malaya is now awaiting submission to Ministers for their definite confirmation.

We have in the meantime, for some months, been working on the consequent constitutional arrangements which would be required in the Malayan mainland (the "Malayan Union") and in Singapore. The memorandum now attached is an outline of the scheme we propose for the Malayan Union, and this is the territory of major political and economic importance—political because it raises the whole issue of the Malay Sultans and their future position in a progressive united Malaya.

I am sending on separately our proposals regarding Singapore which, according to the policy scheme, is for a period at any rate to be constituted a separate Colony and Government.

The Secretary of State will no doubt wish to discuss, but we have made the memorandum as concise as possible in order that he may see the outline proposed before Ministers take the policy paper.

21.8.45.

Submit memorandum on suggested constitutional proposals for the Malayan Union. I have retained a copy for you.

Can we discuss with you next week?

23.8.

Please see my minute on 55104/45 above.

I attach opposite:

(a) A draft "Explanatory Memorandum for Sultans," designed for Sir Harold MacMichael's use in Malaya.

(b) A comparative statement, as desired by the Secretary of State at this morning's meeting, showing the comparative position of the Malay Rulers (a) before the Japanese invasion, and (b) under the new Malayan Union Constitution. I have explained in my minute.

===== Page 29 =====
On 55104/45, why it is essential that the former of these documents should be approved before the end of next week.

H. T. Bardite
15.9.45.

W. Quint.

Mint that with their drafts are excellent. Please no amendment to request. As agreed at our talk, the draft memorandum for his H. MacMichael will be submitted for cabinet approval. The draft is for B. of V. use.

Sir G. Gates
Mr. Gates has seen these drafts, and I send them forward again together with the other relevant papers.

H. T. Bardite 1675

The "comparative statement," which the S. of S. has seen and noted, has been slightly amended after our latest discussion with him, by the mission of the words "and Malay custom."

The draft "memo. for Sultans" is now to form an annex to the draft cabinet paper on 50323, and is being further considered in that

===== Page 30 =====
26. Memorandum which Sir H. MacMichael will honour to the Malay Rulers in explaining to them H.M.G.'s intentions regarding Melaga. (24 revised)

27. Memorandum on Future Constitution for Malay Peninsula (22 revised)

28. Alfsa (via W.O.) Tel. No. 4668MA(M) — 9.10.45

The point of the telegram at 28 is in the words "not more than" in respect of the 21 Official Members of the proposed Legislative Council for the Malayan Union, the idea of the telegram being to suggest that while this would prohibit an increase in official membership, it would be possible to increase the unofficial membership above 21 in order to make possible an unofficial majority at some future date.

The phrasing of the final memorandum at 27 (incidentally the reference is to paragraph 5 not 3) is based on the final Willan memorandum (page 26) at 11 which in turn repeats the wording of the second draft Willan memorandum at 2. This last memorandum which was the result of discussions on the Constitution held last December, including the one of 11th December referred to in the telegram, does not use the phrase "not more than" but speaks without qualification of 21 officials. The point does not appear to have a reason before this query.

I take it that whatever the wording, the intention is to have a Legislative Council of 21 officials and 21 unofficials to begin with and that this would not preclude subsequent alterations towards setting up an unofficial majority. If that is so then the telegram at 28 is placing too precise and too final an interpretation on the memorandum.

Unless it is felt that the words "not more than" have a significance which it is important should be read into the memorandum at 27, I reply as in draft.

W.J. Morgan

13.10.45.

I am not familiar with the document referred to in this telegram but it seems to me that the point at issue is:
If the instrument establishing the law, as provided for not more than 21 officials, it would be

===== Page 31 =====
The possibility to have an unofficial majority at any time by not filling the official quota of seats. If the number in proof is 21, it would be necessary to amend the instrument formally to provide for an increase in the number of offenders or a decrease in those of the offenders. For the reasons stated in my addition to the draft, I consider the letter the regular course.

16827. 16910.

Let me mention I am not familiar with this.

(My suggestion, made a long time ago, that I should be concerned in preparation of the constitution, I always attend meetings, was not accepted.)

I have added an additional reason for not learning the matter of unofficial magistrates to administration action. I assume that if there is no such unofficial magistrate, it is not possible to have reserved power. If there are all officials, 21 unofficials, then with such an unofficial magistrate, like 21 magistrates, who will be a member in addition to 21, will have a use of necessary, a casting vote, if not an original with also.

Prelude to work meets the point in the words "for the time being" "unofficial officer" "shares" with the 1st line of the last unofficial page.

16.10.

X is surely worth mention — it is indeed most worth, as the whole campaign is "for the time being".

This reply may issue CWG 187x.

===== Page 32 =====
29. Del. to K.S.M.A. (M.) Alfred - via W.O. - 20.10.45

30. Del. from S.E.A.C. (from Michael) — 20.10.45
No. 142 Emergency
(Group 55/104/20/1/45)

31. Del. from SEAC. No. 145. Immed. — 21.10.45.
M.G.-Del. BMA. No. 81341 (draft at 29) — 24.10.45.

Colonel O'Connor

I am anxious to get some reply to General Hone's telegram at (31) submitted to Sir George Gater in the near future. You will recall that we had a few words before our general discussion yesterday on this particular telegram. I should myself have thought it extremely unlikely that there would be any State property of a religious character in the Malay States which was not connected with the Mohammedan religion. In these circumstances it might meet the point made by Sir Harold MacMichael if the relevant clause of the Order in Council were stated in general terms. I have not the temerity to attempt a draft myself, but I imagine that it would exclude from the transfer to Malayan Union any buildings or lands etc., now the property of the State Government and used for the purposes of religion. There would be no harm, I think, if this clause operated to retain under the authority of the State Councils property now allocated for other religions and if any difficulties arose they could presumably be dealt with by ad hoc legislation. I suggest therefore that it would be sufficient to reply to Sir Harold MacMichael on the lines of the attached draft.

33. W.O. - Del. from BMA. No. 985 (org. on 55/104/20/1/45) — 25.10.45.

Mr Moncou.

There may be some Chinese temples or burial grounds, or Hindu temples, on State land; though I think that they are usually on land allocated to farmers.

2. Technically, in the F.M.S., State land is not under control of the State government, but to the property of the Ruler. The British Resident is empowered to alienate it on his behalf, subject to the provisions of the Land Code (a Federal Investment).

3. I agree with the reply proposed. The position will be watched when drafting the Order in Council.

===== Page 33 =====
I was asked a short time ago to prepare a draft White Paper on the policy for the future constitution of the Malayan Union at Singapore, with the intention, I understand, of it being published before Parliament rises.

The original draft is at 35. This has been discussed by Mr. Gent, Mr. Paskin, Col. O'Connor, and myself, and as a result, a second draft for a White Paper has been prepared and is now at (36) for consideration. The effects of these revisions have been to considerably reduce and streamline the original memorandum, which included a historical review in justification of the new policy and a fair amount of detail concerning the proposed constitutional arrangements. Additions are a reference to the future of Labuan in paragraph 3 and to the future functions of a Governor-General in the last paragraph.

The plan of the paper is as follows:

Para. 1. Present constitutional arrangements of Malaya.

Para. 2. Need for change.

Para. 3. Separate treatment of Singapore and Labuan.

Paras. 4 & 5. Need for new agreement with Rulers and the application of fresh legislation to enable the reconstitution of Malaya.

Paras. 6 - 11. The Malayan Union.

Paras. 12 - 13. The Colony of Singapore.

Para. 14. Pan-Malayan subjects.

Para. 15. The Governor-General.

This Paper is now submitted for consideration and approval.

W.S. Morgan
26.11.45.

Mr. Paskin. I have made suggestions in pencil on the draft.

K. K. O'Connor
27.11.

===== Page 34 =====
Mr. Stuart Wray
Mr. Carrie

As it is timely that Mr. H. MacMichael will have successfully completed his work with the Palay Rulers by the end of December, we must press on with this White Paper for pardon.

Can you look through the recent draft? Hold any comments on your concurrence.

S. G. Grant
112

===== Page 35 =====
I do not pretend by any means to be fully acquainted with what is intended in these constitutional changes, but the following points occur to me on the draft White Paper:

(1) The form and arrangement are such as to convey the general impression that we are thinking almost solely of the arrangements for the future Malayan Union and the position of the Colony of Singapore and of the Governor-General are very much afterthoughts. I should have thought the presentation would have been improved if we gave the necessary general account of the constitution of the new Colony of Singapore and of the position of the Governor-General immediately after paragraph 5 and before going into detail about the internal constitution of the Malayan Union.

(2) Paragraph 14 leaves a rather vague impression as to both the geographical area to be covered by the new Governor-General and as to the extent of his powers. This may be intentional, but questions are bound to be asked, e.g., whether Hong Kong is within his sphere; what will be his constitutional relationship to the Governors of the several territories; whether those Governors will communicate directly with the Secretary of State or only through the Governor-General; and so on. As those questions are bound to be asked, might it not be as well to try and anticipate by giving some answers in this paper?

(3) Presumably the municipality of Penang is to be continued in existence; if so, ought not reference be made to it or some other local authorities which will be continued in the Malayan Union? Are not questions likely to be asked, too, as to whether the same broad representative basis is to be given to the Penang municipality as is proposed for the Singapore municipality?

===== Page 36 =====
(4) Para. 10 deals with the transfer of assets and property to the new constitutional union. It suggests by implication that the new Colony of Singapore will take over all the assets of the Straits Settlements other than those relating to Penang, Malacca and Labuan. If this is so, ought it not to be explicitly stated?

(5) Para. 13 refers to particular agreements to regulate certain subjects of pan-Malayan importance, including currency. I imagine that no more is intended as regards currency than that the new constitutional union will take over the existing agreements between the Straits Settlements and the various Malay States, which govern the form of currency. If so, I think that ought to be made clear, as otherwise people may read the paragraph to mean that some new agreement is to be negotiated which may cast very undesirable doubts on the continuity of currency policy. The same may be true of other special subjects which are to be regulated by agreements.

(6) On a matter of pure form, the last sentence of para. 4 will presumably require amendment if, as I gather from Mr. Gent's minute above, the White Paper is likely to be issued after Sir Harold MacMichael has completed his negotiations, not while they are still in progress.

4.12.45.

===== Page 37 =====
I agree generally with Mr. Caine. In particular, I think that some rearrangement is most desirable, and that points expressly dealt with now only as respects the Malayan Union should equally be mentioned for Singapore and vice versa. Paragraph 3 appears to anticipate paragraphs 4 and 5 and should, I suggest, come after them. The logical arrangement appears to be to state first of all the general scheme covering the Union of Singapore and also the Cocos Islands, Labuan, and Christmas Island, then set out the proposed constitution for Singapore (including the "initial phase" to which there is only a reference by way of implication in paragraph 12), then the constitution of the Malayan Union, followed by paragraph 13 (subjects of pan-Malayan importance), paragraph 7 (Malayan citizenship), paragraph 9 (courts), paragraph 10 (property), the last sentence of paragraph 6 (transitional provisions if needed at all, which I doubt), paragraph 14 (Governor General).

It seems desirable to have marginal notes to all the paragraphs if any are to have them. As regards paragraph 5, the present second sentence requires modification in view of the actual terms of the Bill. I have made a suggestion in which I have assumed that when this paper is published the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Bill will in fact be before Parliament.

Paragraph 7. I assume that my alteration of sub-paragraph (b) is correct. The usual expression is "ordinarily resident." The sentence about British nationality should surely be extended to all British subjects who acquire Malayan Union citizenship. It does not apply only to those born in Penang and Malacca. In the last line but one, "local Councils" appears not to cover Legislative Councils and Executive Councils, but presumably it should.

In paragraph 8, second sentence, "approval" seems to be better than "agreement."

===== Page 38 =====
As regards paragraph 9, I suppose it has been decided to refer to the "High Court" of the Union and the "Supreme Court" of Singapore, though I am not sure why. I should have thought one court of appeal for the two territories would be sufficient. This, however, might cause complications in legislation, and as the Judges of one court will be ex officio Judges of the other, the point appears to be of no practical importance. The constitutions will not provide for appeals to the Privy Council; right of appeal will, however, exist.

Paragraphs 11 and 12. I agree with Mr. Caine that the question of municipalities should be dealt with rather more fully, and as respects the Malayan Union as well as Singapore. Incidentally, General Hone raised a question which may affect these paragraphs.

5/12/45.

Note. The giving effect of James 7 (46), the O.C should state exact dates for period of Japanese occupation if argument is to be considered.

C. O. Lovett

I should be grateful if you will read through them, my son has

===== Page 39 =====
6.

===== Page 40 =====
Mr. Robert Wray.

Mr. Caine's Minute of 4/12/45.

Paragraph 1. I agree.

Paragraph 2. We cannot, I understand, disclose the territories to be in the sphere of the Governor-General until further progress has been made regarding Borneo and Sarawak; and I do not think that the Governor-General's functions have yet been finally defined, though there is a paper now in circulation about them. I agree with General Hone that to call him "Governor General" (or "Governor" anything) is likely to have an unfortunate effect (in native estimation) on the position of the Governor of Singapore. I suggest that, if possible, the word "Governor" in the title should be avoided. "High Commissioner" would be unsuitable, as that is associated in the public mind with the F.M.S.

It is difficult to think of an alternative. "His Majesty's Agent General" is the best I can suggest and that is not good.

Paragraph 3. It may be as well to mention the Penang municipality.

Paragraph 4. I think the proposal is as stated and I am drafting on this assumption. But is the policy definitely settled?

Paragraph 5. I should not have thought that paragraph 13 would raise doubts as to continuity of currency policy.

===== Page 41 =====
Your Minute dated 5/12/45.

Paragraph 1. I agree. I think "paragraph 7" in line 18 should be "paragraph 12".

Paragraph 2. I agree.

Paragraph 3. I agree. In Willan's Memorandum he recommends that membership of the Executive Council be confined to M.U. citizens. He does not mention Leg. Co., but it should be included. I think Mr. Morgan intended "Local Councils" to include In. Co. & Leg. Co., but the Ferdinand is not a good one.

Paragraph 4. Yes.

Paragraph 5. This is Willan's nomenclature. He says, on page 33 of his Memorandum, "The term High Court is used because it appears to be the custom to reserve the term 'Supreme Court' for Crown Colonies."
On the other hand, I think that "Supreme Court" is the more usual term when the Court has jurisdiction over a Colony and a Protectorate, e.g., Kenya, Gambia, Nigeria, and the Gold Coast. Penang and Malacca are no longer a Colony, but they are part of a former Colony. Previously it was the "Supreme Court" of the F.M.S. I doubt whether it matters very much, but I should like the point to be decided as it affects my draft Order in Council.

The question of a joint Court of Appeal is dealt with and rejected by Willan at page 32. As you say, the point is not of much practical importance, but I think that probably Willan is right. This is a reform which might come later. I agree that the new Constitution will not "provide for" appeals to the Privy Council. The F.M.S. Appeal Order in Council 1912 will be superseded.

===== Page 42 =====
I have recast the Third Draft of the White Paper, following the order of subjects suggested by Mr. Roberts Wray and covering as far as possible points of amendment suggested in the previous minutes. The paper now takes the following plan. The figures in brackets refer to the corresponding paragraphs in the Third Draft.

I. Previous Position (1)

Line 6. The geographical description of Cocos and Christmas Island is difficult, but "south of Sumatra" is rather more accurate than "south of Java".

Last two lines: "Five" should read "six" and "nine" should read "ten", as Perlis should be included.

2. Need for Reform (2)

Line 2. I have inserted a negative to read "not inappropriate" to make sense of this passage.

3. H.M.'s Jurisdiction in Malay States (4)

Line 3. "Malaya" to read "the Peninsula".

Line 12. I have altered the tense to cover whether Sir H. MacMichael has or has not concluded his mission.

4. Outline of Proposals (5)

Line 3. The definite of Malay States has been made more precise to avoid confusion with Labuan.

===== Page 43 =====
Second sentence: It should be noted that this assumes the S.S. (Repeal) Bill will be before Parliament when this paper is published.

5. Special Position of Singapore (3)

Attention should be drawn to the statement about Labuan. Is this to be disclosed?

6. The Colony of Singapore (9 and 10)

This has been brought forward in the Paper and paragraph 11 of the Third Draft put into it on the same lines as paragraph 10 for the Malayan Union. I have kept the words "Municipal Commission" and not "Municipality" as Mr. Roberts Wray has suggested in the Third Draft, since the latter term refers to the town area and the local assembly.

The major part of this paragraph assumes that we are proceeding on agreed lines and not on those now put forward by General Hone for an all-embracing Island Council, with executive Boards.

7. The Malayan Union (6)

I have omitted the last sentence about transitional provisions, as suggested by Mr. Roberts Wray.

We should consider whether the remarks about local government and State Councils require further elaboration, since Mr. Caine and Mr. Roberts Wray both suggest that equal point should be given to municipalities in the Malayan Union, that of Penang in particular, as to the Municipality in Singapore. I think, however, that the balance of elaboration is between the Municipality of Singapore and its nearest parallels, the State and Settlement Councils, and that we should not enter into fuller details of local government in the Malayan Union, particularly

===== Page 44 =====
Particularly, as the Penang Municipality and other details of local government have not yet been worked out and are to be discussed with Brigadier Willan when he arrives here shortly, I suggest, therefore, that the present passage should stand as drafted.

8. Malay Rulers (8)

Line 11: "approval" reads "for" "agreement"

9. Pan-Malayan Subjects (13)

To meet the point made by Mr. Caine, I have substituted the general phrase "matters of common arrangement" for "particular agreements".

10. Malayan Union Citizenship (7)

In view of criticisms, "local Councils" as not being sufficiently explicit, has been changed to "Central and Local Councils".

11. Courts (9)

A decision is needed to settle whether it should be the "High Court" or "Supreme Court" of the Malayan Union, Col. O'Connor accepting Brig. Willan's preference for the former and Mr. Roberts Wray favouring the latter.

12. Transfer of Property (10)

Regarding the second sentence, in spite of Mr. Caine's criticism, I have let the passage stand since Col. O'Connor says the proposal is as stated.

===== Page 45 =====
13. Governor General (14)

This paragraph, as a first disclosure of an important new appointment, will provoke questions, at a time when details have not been finally settled as to what should be the title, functions, and relationships with the Governors of the Governor General. I understand this subject was raised by Gen. Hone during his visit.

I suggest this paragraph be omitted as this would not affect the rest of the Paper.

The Fourth Draft is submitted for consideration.

14.12.45.

38 Fourth Draft White Paper

- 13.11.45

39 Fifth Draft

The Fourth Draft (38) was further considered and revised yesterday by Mr. Gent, Col. O'Connor, and myself. The Fifth Draft at (39) is now submitted for approval.

It should be noted that apart from a passing reference of facts in paragraph (1), all other mention of the Straits Settlement of Labuan in future has been omitted.

/Attention

===== Page 46 =====
Attention should also be paid to paragraph 13 (Governor-General), which has been difficult to draft. In this connection please see:

(a) General Hone's note at (6) on 50823/23 as attached below, in which he casts doubt on "Governor-General" as an appropriate title and points out difficulties regarding the Governor-General's relations with other Governors, particularly in the matter of channels of communication.

(b) On this file, the minutes of Mr. Caine of 4/12 and of Col. O'Connor of 8/12.

It will be seen that, having regard to the difficulty of mentioning at this stage the functions of the Governor-General in relation to the Borneo territories, particularly Sarawak, reference is made only to the Malayan Union and Singapore.

J. S. Morgan
15.12.45.

I have just seen the fifth draft of the White Paper. There are some small points of detail I should like to raise, and to avoid encumbering the minutes I have set them out in a note now attached.

17.12.45.

===== Page 47 =====
Mr. Roberts Wrays suggested amendments of paragraphs 5, 6, 9, and 10 have now been included in the 5th draft at (39), copies of which, excluding these latest textual alterations, have gone forward for separate consideration by the Secretary of State, Mr. Creech Jones, and Sir George Gater.

With regard to para. 13 (Governor-General), the relevant files have also gone forward separately from Mr. Gent.

Mr. Gent's note as copied at (41) raises the question of the timetable and procedure for the White Paper. This was discussed yesterday morning with Sir George Gater, and a decision on this will be considered separately in relation to the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Bill.

The final draft of the White Paper, as agreed by Eastern Department and the Legal Advisers, is now submitted for approval.

W. S. Morton
18.12.45.

I have now attached a note by Mr. Creech Jones containing his comments on the 5th draft of the White Paper. I understand that copies of that draft were also circulated to Sir George Gater and the Secretary of State, and perhaps the most convenient course would be to have a meeting at which Mr. Creech Jones's comments and any comments which Sir George Gater and the Secretary of State may have could be considered and the draft finalised.

I presume that the draft will be circulated to the Colonial Affairs Committee under cover of a note.

===== Page 48 =====
Note by the Secretary of State. A draft of this note might be prepared now and considered at the meeting proposed above. I presume that the note should, among other things, contain a suitable reference to the desirability of publishing the Paper simultaneously with the second reading of the Straits Settlements Repeal Bill and seek approval both for the issue of a White Paper and of the terms of the draft.

I understand from Mr. Muston that he would like to have the paper in its final form about the 7th January. That would give sufficient time to arrange for it to be printed and sent out to Malaya in time for simultaneous publication in Malaya and this country about the 22nd January. I suggest, therefore, that we should work so far as possible to the 7th January as the date for Cabinet approval.

20.12.45.

Can we meet for X, Y on Lord Agrees, on Monday 31st December at 11:00 am? Mr Mayle's room?

The programme will then be a Col. Affairs Cabinet Council meeting about 3rd, 19th or 4th, 14th January.

===== Page 49 =====
The Fifth Draft was reconsidered this morning in the light of Mr. Creech Jones' comments by Mr. Gent, Mr. Lloyd, Mr. Mayle, Col. O'Connor, and myself. Note was also taken of suggestions put forward by the Sultans of Kelantan and Perak in connection with Malayan Union citizenship.

The following is a summary of the main changes effected.

Para. 2. Need for reform. This has now been substantially expanded to indicate the imperative need for changes to suit Malaya to post-war conditions and aims.

Para. 3. H.M. to possess jurisdiction in the Malay States.

This has been modified to include the successful conclusion of Sir H. MacMichael's mission. Further points can, it is felt, be elaborated either in the public announcement about the mission or in the Parliamentary debate.

Para. 5. Special position of Singapore. The last sentence has been re-worded so as not to leave future amalgamation as a matter only for agreement between the Malayan Union and Singapore.

Para. 6. Colony of Singapore. In the last sentence, "full and effective" reads for "adequate" representation.

Para. 8. Malay Rulers. This section generally indicates the new standing of the Malay Rulers and their relationship to the Malays. A new sentence covers their financial position.

Para. 9. Subjects of pan-Malayan Importance.

It was not intended that the list of subjects

===== Page 50 =====
would necessarily be inclusive. Higher Education has been included.

Para. 10. Malayan Union Citizenship.
I am circulating separately (50823/7/3) papers dealing with views submitted by the Rulers, some of whom are exercised about this subject. The substantial change is the addition of the sub-paragraph requiring that all, except those acquiring citizenship by birth, shall take an oath of allegiance to the Union.

Para. 13. Governmental

As it is difficult at this stage to be specific about Borneo affairs and as this paper is dealing with Malaya only, it is suggested that the Borneo reference should be confined to the final passage of the paragraph.

Generally it was felt that the Paper should stand as a brief statement confined to constitutional matters, and that the elaboration of these and the discussion of any other Malayan topics that may be revised in the Parliamentary debate should be dealt with orally.

If this Sixth Draft is now approved, it is necessary to consider the timetable for its approval by the Colonial Affairs Committee and the Cabinet, and for its publication. It is considered desirable that the Paper should be disclosed in Malaya simultaneously with its publication in this country. At the same time it should be laid before Parliament at the same time as the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Bill so introduced into the Lords at the end of the Recess, i.e.

===== Page 51 =====
22nd January. Mr. Melville informs me that this Bill has not yet been introduced in the Lords and must necessarily wait on the publication of the White Paper.

It is suggested therefore that arrangements should be made for this Paper to be considered by the Colonial Affairs Committee not later than Friday this week and to be submitted for approval by the Cabinet at a meeting on the earliest possible day next week.

Mr. Lloyd
Mr. Gent
Mr. Creech-Jones

The draft White Paper, revised in accordance with the conclusions reached at yesterday afternoon's meeting, was sent to the Secretary of State by Mr. Melville yesterday evening under cover of a letter giving such explanations as were necessary and seeking the Secretary of State's comments by this afternoon or tomorrow afternoon.

I understand that a meeting of the Colonial Affairs Committee has been fixed for 3.30 p.m. on Monday 7th, and that Mr. Creech-Jones is to attend.

===== Page 52 =====
I have suggested to Mr. Robertson that Mr. Gent and Mr. O'Connor should be warned in case Mr. Creech-Jones would like them to be present.

The White Paper will, of course, require a covering note and I attach a draft for consideration. I presume that Mr. Creech-Jones will sign this note for the Secretary of State.

The note and the White Paper should be available to Cabinet Offices for distribution by Thursday evening. A copy of the draft in its latest form is attached at the top of this file. It is, of course, subject to any comments the Secretary of State may have.

2.1.46.

The draft of the White Paper has now been amended further in view of comments by the Secretary of State, and is now ready under cover of the attached memorandum, which has been approved by Mr. Creech-Jones, to go forward to the Colonial Affairs Committee for consideration at next Monday's meeting (3:30), under Mr. Creech-Jones' signature.

A meeting has been arranged for the Secretary of State to discuss this paper with the Eastern Department at 11:00 on Monday.

Copies have gone forward separately to Mr. Creech-Jones and Sir Arthur Dawe.

3.1.46.

===== Page 53 =====
The White Paper was discussed with the Secretary of State this morning, and as a result certain changes have been made in the text, particularly in paragraphs (2) and (3).

Subsequently, it was considered this afternoon by the Colonial Affairs Committee, which accepted the text of the White Paper and agreed to submit it for Cabinet approval.

As this will be down for discussion on Thursday next, it is necessary to forward the Paper to be printed immediately for circulation to the Cabinet.

I attach accordingly a draft memorandum submitting for Cabinet approval a recommendation that the White Paper, as contained in the Annexe, be laid not later than the beginning of the next Session. This is for the signature of Lord Addison, as Acting Chairman of the Colonial Affairs Committee.

W. S. Morgan
8.1.46.

Signed agree.

I have given top copy to Mr. Love for Lord Addison's approval and for submission to Cab. Officer. It will be done on Thursday's agenda, if at all possible.

Keen
8.1.

===== Page 54 =====
44. Memo by Secretary of State on Colonial Affairs
Cite - Malayan Constitution with draft White Paper.

45. To Maj. Logan.

46. Memo by Secretary of State and draft White Paper.

47. Draft note by acting Chairman Colonial Affairs
Cite - 7.1.46 withdrawn draft White Paper.

48. Minutes of Meeting of Colonial Affairs Cite.

As at (47), the version of the White Paper, as finally amended after discussion with the Secretary of State on 7/1 and after approval by the Cabinet Affairs Committee (see notes of meeting at 48. Item 2), has now gone forward for Cabinet approval.

In the meantime, I understand that, in view of the pressing timetable and the need to arrange for publication in Malaya simultaneously with the laying of the Paper before Parliament, it should be arranged for the latest version of the White Paper to be sent by fast air to General Hone.

I attach therefore a draft letter, to accompany the White Paper. I have suggested, as was the case with the recent Ceylon White Paper, that the text should be published in the B.M.A's Official Gazettes in the Peninsula and Singapore.

I attach also a draft telegram to General Hone, giving advance notice of the letter and asking for the receipt of the paper to be acknowledged.

It should be noted that I have arranged for letters and telegrams on constitutional matters going to Malaya to be sent by hand to Junior Commander Myer (C.A.1. War Office Room 118 Hotel Victoria), who will arrange for their onward transmission without delay.

W. S. Morgan
8.1.46.

I explained to T. off the contents of the telegram and letter and he agreed to their dispatch.

9.1.46

49. Due to Bm Am Seac - Ts Imm Realt - 9/1/46

50. To Maj. Gen. Hone
9.1.46

===== Page 55 =====
51. D.O. encl. copy of letter from G.W. Tony to D.F. Hubbard

52. Cabinet - Corrigendum to minutes of meeting of Colonial Affairs Committee. (48)

===== Page 56 =====
(THIS DOCUMENT IS THE PROPERTY OF HIS BRITANNIC MAJESTY'S GOVERNMENT)

CONFIDENTIAL

C.(46) 1st Meeting

COPY NO. 31

CABINET

COLONIAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE

MINUTES of a Meeting held on MONDAY, 7TH JANUARY, 1946.

CORRIGENDUM

Front Page, under "The following were also Present".

After "Mr. A. Creech Jones, M.P., Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Colonies"

Insert "Sir Eric Machtig, Permanent Under-Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs."

Cabinet Office, S.W.1.

9TH JANUARY, 1946.

===== Page 57 =====
TOP SECRET

I am enclosing a copy of the draft of the proposed White Paper on the future constitutional arrangements for the Malayan Union and Singapore. This has been approved by the Secretary of State and by the Colonial Affairs Committee, which is submitting it to the full Cabinet with a recommendation that the Paper be laid before Parliament not later than the beginning of the next Session, i.e., 22nd January. About that date, the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Bill (copy enclosed) will be introduced into the Lords and it is felt most desirable then to lay a White Paper giving Members of both Houses more detailed information than could be brought within the statement which the Secretary of State made in the Commons on 10th October.

2. It is intended that, simultaneously with its laying before Parliament, the White Paper should be published in Malaya. The official Gazettes of the Military Administration in the Peninsula and Singapore would seem to be the most convenient vehicles for this, and we would suggest that steps might be taken to have the text of the White Paper set up ready for printing.

3. You will appreciate that this Paper has not yet received Cabinet approval and that Parliamentary privilege is involved in any premature disclosure of its terms. I would be grateful, therefore, if it could be treated as most secret and if all proper precautions could/

Major General H.R. Hone, CBE., MC., KC.

===== Page 58 =====
With the Compliments of the Private Secretary to the Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs.

Reference: Malayan Constitutions

Date: 8.1.46.

===== Page 59 =====
8th January, 1946.

My dear Hubback,

I enclose the text of the Cabinet Paper on "Malayan Constitutions" about which we spoke earlier this afternoon. I understood from you that you would probably be able to arrange for this paper to be taken on Thursday next, the 10th January, and I assured you that if the addition of this item made it necessary to postpone still further Lord Addison's own paper on the "Creation of Life Peers", Lord Addison, for his part, would see no objection, provided that his paper is taken before the 23rd January when the House of Lords reassembles.

I am sending a copy of this letter to Melville at the Colonial Office.

Yours sincerely,

G.W. TORY

D.F. Hubback, Esq.

===== Page 60 =====
FOR SIR G. GATER'S SIGNATURE.

MAJOR GENERAL H. R. HONE,
C. B. E., M. C., K. C.,
C. C. A. O., B. M. A. (M)

KUALA LUMPUR,
MALAYA.

(To be sent under cover by hand to Junior Commander Myer,
C. A. I. War Office,
Room 118,
Hotel Victoria)

5.5 (Repeal Bill)

I am enclosing a copy of the draft of the proposed White Paper on the future constitutional arrangements for the Malayan Union and Singapore. This has been approved by the Secretary of State and by the Colonial Affairs Committee, which is submitting it to the full Cabinet with a recommendation that the Paper be laid before Parliament not later than the beginning of the next Session, i.e. 22nd January. At this time the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Bill will be introduced into the Lords and it is necessary accordingly to have a White Paper ready to provide fuller information for the Members of both Houses than was given in the brief outline of the new constitutional arrangements by the Secretary of State on 10th October.

2. It is intended, and you will no doubt agree, that, simultaneously with the laying before Parliament, the White Paper should be published in Malaya. The official Gazettes of the Military Administration

===== Page 61 =====
The Peninsula and Singapore would seem to be the convenient vehicles for this, and we would suggest steps might be taken to have the text of the White Paper set up ready for printing.

3. You will appreciate that this Paper has not yet received Cabinet approval and that Parliamentary privilege is involved in any premature disclosure of its terms. I would be grateful therefore if it could be treated as most secret and if all proper precautions could be taken for its safeguard.

4. After the Paper has Cabinet approval and the date and time of its laying before Parliament is confirmed, we shall enable to you the time after which you may authorise publication in Malaya together with such amendments as it may still be necessary to make in the next. At that time we shall confirm the terms of the caption to the Paper.

5. I understand that Colonel Logan of the War Office will be handing you personally copies of an earlier draft of the Paper for your information. You will of course treat this text, which contains a number of further amendments, as the official version.

===== Page 62 =====
TOP SECRET
CIPHER TELEGRAM

This message will not be distributed outside British Government Departments or Headquarters or re-transmitted, even in cipher, without being paraphrased.

(Messages marked O.T.P. need not be paraphrased)

FROM: - WAR OFFICE. D.T.O. 102350 Jan 46

TO: - D.M.A. (M) IMMEDIATE.

INFO: - SACSEA TOP SECRET.

RELEASE SINGAPORE. Desp 102350 Jan 46

92729 cipher (C.A.1. 10 Jan. 46).

Following from Colonial Office for Honour from Gater.

BEGIN. ONE. Immediately following by fast air is covering letter and latest text of White Paper on Malayan constitutional arrangements, which subject to Cabinet approval and further amendment, it is intended to publish in Malaya simultaneously with laying before Parliament approximately 22 Jan.

TWO. Grateful earliest acknowledgment of safe receipt of text and letter.

THREE. Colonial Logan of War Office will be handing you copies of an earlier draft of this Paper. It is most important that both these copies and the one enclosed in my letter should be treated at all stages as top secret.

C.6. (Tols)

Copies to:

S. of S. D.C.A.
P.U.S. D.D.C.A. (M.G.) (3)
U.S. of S. C.A.1. (10)
D.U.S. (A) F.5.
F.M. (A) D.M.0.
D.F. (A) D.D.M.0. (A)
A.C.S. M.0.1, 12.
C.I.G.S. D.M.I. (1)
V.C.I.G.S. M.I.2, 17.
A.C.I.G.S. (0)

Colonial Office (Mr. Paskin)
(Tols. C.D. Miss Barnett) (15)

===== Page 63 =====
C.O.

Mr. Morgan 8/1

Mr.

Mr.

Mr.

Mr.

Permit, U.S. of S.

Parly. U.S. of S.

Secretary of State.

DRAFT. CIPHER TELEGRAM

B. M. A. (M)

S. E. A. C.

Via C.A.1. War Office

(Tel. Section to note that this should be sent by hand to Junior Commander Myer, C.A.1. Room 118, Hotel Victoria).

SECRET

IMMEDIATE and RESTRICTED.

Following for Home from Gater.

1. Immediately following by fast air is covering letter and text of White Paper on Malayan constitutional arrangements, which subject to Cabinet approval and further amendment, it is intended to publish in Malaya simultaneously with laying before Parliament approximately 22nd January.

===== Page 64 =====
2. Grateful earliest acknowledgement of safe receipt of text and letter.

3. Col Logan of War Office will hand up your copies of an earlier draft of the Paper. It is most important that after these copies are enclosed in my letter, they should be held at all stages as topmost secret.

===== Page 65 =====
This document must be paraphrased if the communication of its contents to any person outside Government Service is authorised.

50823/6/45
Cypher

G.O. No. 524.

TO B.M.A. (M) S.E.A.C.

FROM S. OF S., COLONIES.

Sent 9th January, 1946, 18.00 hrs. (to War Office for onward transmission)

TOP SECRET
IMMEDIATE AND RESTRICTED.

Following for None from Gater.

1. Immediately following by fast air is covering letter and latest text of White Paper on Malayan constitutional arrangements, which subject to Cabinet approval and further amendment, it is intended to publish in Malaya simultaneously with laying before Parliament approximately 22nd January.

2. Grateful earliest acknowledgement of safe receipt of text and letter.

3. Colonel Logan of War Office will be handing you copies of an earlier draft of this Paper. It is most important that both these copies and the one enclosed in my letter should be treated at all stages as top secret.

Distributed to:

M.S.25
Secretary of State
Sir G. Gater
Mr. Creech-Jones
Sir A. Dave
Sir G. Gent
Mr. Lloyd
Mr. Poynton
Lt. Col. Chalmers
Mr. Bates
Mr. Mayle
Mr. Morgan

===== Page 66 =====
(THIS DOCUMENT IS THE PROPERTY OF HIS BRITANNIC MAJESTY'S GOVERNMENT)

SECRET

C. (46) 1st Meeting

COPY NO. 31

CABINET

COLONIAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE

MINUTES of a Meeting of the Committee held in the Lord Privy Seal's Room, Gwydyr House, S.W.1, on MONDAY 7TH JANUARY, 1946, at 3.0 p.m.

PRESENT:

The Rt. Hon. Viscount Addison,
Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs
(In the Chair)

The Rt. Hon. Lord Pethick-Lawrence,
Secretary of State for India and Secretary of State for Burma

The Rt. Hon. G.H. Hall, M.P.,
Secretary of State for the Colonies

Mr. J.B. Hynd, M.P.,
Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster

THE FOLLOWING WERE ALSO PRESENT:

The Rt. Hon. E. Bevin, M.P.,
Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs

The Rt. Hon. A.V. Alexander, M.P.,
First Lord of the Admiralty

The Rt. Hon. Lord Jowitt,
Lord Chancellor

The Rt. Hon. P.J. Noel-Baker, M.P.,
Minister of State

Mr. A. Creech Jones, M.P.,
Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Colonies

Mr. G.E.J. Gent,
Colonial Office
(For Item 2)

Mr. K.K. O'Connor,
Colonial Office
(For Item 2)

SECRETARIAT:

Mr. C.G. Eastwood
Mr. A.H. Poynton
(For Item 1)
Mr. W.S. Morgan
(For Item 2)

===== Page 67 =====
1. INTERNATIONAL TRUSTEESHIP SYSTEM: FUTURE OF TERRITORIES NOW UNDER UNITED KINGDOM MANDATE

The Committee had before them a memorandum by the Secretary of State for the Colonies (C.(46) 2) regarding the future of the territories now under United Kingdom mandate.

THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR THE COLONIES explained that there had been some discussion in the Cabinet before Christmas of the proposal that His Majesty's Government should declare their intention of placing the Mandated Territories (with the exception of Trans-Jordan) under the international trusteeship system. As a result, he had been requested to obtain the views of the Chiefs of Staff and the Dominions. This had now been done, though the views of the Australian Government had still to be received. He was anxious to resubmit the matter to the Cabinet at their meeting on the 10th of January. In the first place, however, he wished to have the views of this Committee. He apologized for the length of the paper now before them, but the matter was important and technical and required full consideration. His recommendations were summed up in paragraph 24 of the memorandum.

In discussion of these recommendations, the following points were made and decisions reached as indicated:

(i)(a) That the African mandated territories of Togoland, Cameroons, and Tanganyika should be placed under trusteeship.

It had been the assumption of all discussions in recent months that the African mandated territories should be placed under trusteeship.

Much depended on the terms of the Trusteeship Agreements. The concurrence of the United Kingdom as the mandatory power was necessary to these agreements and we should insist before giving our concurrence that they should be drawn up in terms satisfactory to us. There would be great advantage in His Majesty's Government taking the initiative in preparing a draft.

It should be possible under the United Nations Charter to make agreements which were more satisfactory than the existing mandates in two respects; first, as regards the defense arrangements and, secondly, as regards the economic provisions; it could now be ensured that these were in the best interests of the inhabitants. Under the new regime, however, there would be provision for inspection on behalf of the Trusteeship Council, an arrangement which had not existed under the mandate system.

THE COMMITTEE:

(1) Agreed that the Mandated Territories of Togoland, Cameroons, and Tanganyika should be placed under trusteeship, provided that satisfactory Trusteeship Agreements could be negotiated.

===== Page 68 =====
(i)(b) That Trans-Jordan should be given independent status.

THE FIRST LORD OF THE ADMIRALTY, on behalf of the Secretary of State for Air, expressed the wish that the advice of the Chiefs of Staff should be obtained on the effects of the course proposed.

THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS said that he was satisfied that better provision would be possible for our defence interests by this course than by placing Trans-Jordan under trusteeship. If Trans-Jordan were placed under trusteeship, any special requirements for defence purposes would need the concurrence of the Trusteeship Council and this might be difficult to obtain. If it were to be made independent, it should not be difficult to obtain our requirements in the new Treaty which would have to be made with Amir Abdullah.

THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR THE COLONIES said that, if the Cabinet approved the general principle, the Chiefs of Staff would be invited to consider what provisions would be required in the new Treaty.

THE COMMITTEE:

(2) Agreed, on this understanding, to the proposal that steps should be taken to recognise the independent status of Trans-Jordan.

(i)(c) That action in regard to Palestine should be deferred pending the report of the Anglo-American Commission.

THE COMMITTEE:

(3) Agreed to this course.

(ii) That Togoland, Cameroons and Tanganyika territory need not be designated as strategic areas.

It was generally agreed that there was no need for Togoland and the Cameroons to be designated as strategic areas.

The Government of the Union of South Africa had expressed deep concern about the strategic position on the eastern side of Africa. In the light of this view, the Chiefs of Staff had considered afresh that morning the question whether Tanganyika should be designated as a strategic area. The Committee were informed that the material part of their conclusion was as follows:

"There are military arguments both for and against designating Tanganyika as a strategic area, the arguments against such a step being if anything stronger. It is appreciated that the political disadvantages of so designating the area are considerable and we therefore conclude that, having regard both to the military and political factors, Tanganyika should not be designated a strategic area."

===== Page 69 =====
THE COMMITTEE:
(4) Took the view that, having regard to the strong political arguments as set out in C.(46) 2, none of the three territories should be designated as strategic areas.

(iii) That the draft Trusteeship Agreement at Annex III to C.(46) 2 should be approved as a basis for international negotiation for the African Mandated Territories.

THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR DOMINION AFFAIRS took the view that Dominion Governments ought to see the draft Agreement before it was circulated internationally.

THE COMMITTEE:
(5) Agreed that the draft should be accepted as a basis for negotiation and that it should be circulated to Dominion Governments forthwith.

(iv) That the draft Trusteeship Agreement at Annex III to C.(46) 2 should in the first instance be sent for concurrence to the Belgian Government in respect of Tanganyika and to the French Government in respect of Cameroons and Togoland, with copies for information to the other "Big Five" members of the Trusteeship Council and to the Secretary-General of the United Nations Organisation.

THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR THE COLONIES pointed out that under Article 79 of the United Nations Charter the terms of trusteeship for each territory had to be agreed upon by the "states directly concerned". There was no clear indication as to the meaning of this term. It could in fact be interpreted in several different ways and the question was one which would have to be discussed internationally. Meanwhile, he proposed an interim method of procedure, as set out in paragraph 19 of C.(46) 2, which could be carried out without prejudice to the general position.

THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR DOMINION AFFAIRS said that the Government of South Africa had expressed the desire that they should be recognised from the outset as a state directly concerned in regard to all the Mandated Territories in East and West Africa.

THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR THE COLONIES and THE MINISTER OF STATE expressed considerable concern at the possible repercussions of such recognition in relation to Mandated Territories not only in Africa but elsewhere. For instance, a similar position might have to be accorded to Egypt in regard to Mandated Territories in Africa. It might also affect the number and identity of the states directly concerned in the future of the Mandated Territories in the Western Pacific.

It was also pointed out that, under the Committee's previous decision, the draft Agreement would in fact be circulated to all the Dominion Governments, whether or not they could be regarded as technically "states directly concerned", before it was given any international circulation.

===== Page 70 =====
On the other hand, it was argued that the Council of Foreign Ministers had agreed that South Africa was directly concerned in the peace negotiations with Italy and it was felt that the arguments in favour of recognising South Africa's claim were strong.

THE COMMITTEE:

(6) Agreed that the Union of South Africa must in fact be regarded as directly concerned in the future of our Mandated Territories in Tropical Africa. Further consideration should be given to the exact means of giving effect to this conclusion.

(v) That the Dominion Governments and the Governors of the territories concerned should be informed of our policy, and that the latter should be consulted as to the exact terms in which it should be announced.

After discussion, THE COMMITTEE:

(7) Agreed that this recommendation should be reworded as follows:

(a) that the terms of the announcement should be forwarded to Dominion Governments for their observations; and

(b) that the Secretary of State for the Colonies should undertake any necessary consultation regarding the terms of the announcement with the Governors of the territories concerned.

(vi) That an appropriate statement covering the above points should be made by the British Delegation at the earliest suitable moment at the forthcoming meeting of the General Assembly of the United Nations, without waiting for Parliament to re-assemble.

The Committee thought that there was much force in the argument that it was to our advantage to take the initiative in the practical application of the trusteeship system and for this purpose to make a statement of our intentions at the earliest possible moment during the First Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.

It was reported to the Committee, however, that the French Cabinet were now understood to have deferred consideration of the whole principle of placing French Togoland and the Cameroons under the trusteeship system in order that they might consult further with local consultative bodies. It seemed clear, therefore, that the French Delegation would not be in a position to make any statement regarding French policy in the very near future and a statement by the British Government might be embarrassing to them. They might, indeed, ask us to slow down our tempo to match them.

===== Page 71 =====
THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS was invited to consider the possibility of urging the French to change their point of view, but it was generally felt that the arguments in favour of an early statement on our part regarding our intentions outweighed the disadvantage of possible embarrassment to the French.

There was considerable discussion as to the timing of any statement. It would be very useful if it could be included in the speech to be made by the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs very soon after the opening of the Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations on 10th January. On the other hand, Parliament might consider that a statement of this importance should first be made to them and Parliament would not be sitting before the 22nd January.

It was agreed that this point could be covered if (a) the statement was to the effect that "His Majesty's Government propose to take the necessary steps" to carry out their intentions on the various matters, and (b) the statement was then repeated in the House of Commons as soon as Parliament reassembled.

It was felt that there was nothing in the proposed statement which would be inconsistent with any assurances given in Parliament. Before making the statement, however, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs would confirm this by reference to previous statements.

THE COMMITTEE:

(8) Agreed that, subject to the points above, an appropriate statement should be made at the earliest suitable moment at the forthcoming Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.

(9) Agreed that the statement should subsequently be repeated in Parliament as soon as it reassembled.

(10) Invited the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to consider the possibility of urging the French Government to reach an early decision of policy regarding French Mandated Territories.

2. MALAYA: DRAFT STATEMENT OF POLICY FOR THE FUTURE CONSTITUTION OF THE MALAYAN UNION AND THE COLONY OF SINGAPORE

The Committee had before them a memorandum by the Secretary of State for the Colonies (C.(46) 1), covering the draft of a White Paper on the constitutional proposals for Malaya.

The SECRETARY OF STATE FOR THE COLONIES said that it was very desirable to supplement the brief statement made in Parliament on the 10th October before the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Bill was taken in Parliament during the next Sitting. In the last few months Sir Harold MacMichael had visited Malaya and had been very successful in reaching Agreements with the Malay Rulers which, supplementing the existing Treaties, granted full jurisdiction in each territory to His Majesty.

===== Page 72 =====
THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR INDIA said that the proposals regarding the position of the Malay Rulers would be very carefully scrutinised by Indian Rulers. They at present had a much larger measure of autonomy than the Malay Rulers, but some alteration of their position in the near future was inevitable. Action taken in Malaya would have repercussions in India and he hoped that in working out the details of the proposals officials of the Colonial Office would keep in close touch with officials of the India Office.

THE MINISTER OF STATE suggested that in the timing of the issue of the White Paper it would be important to have regard to the progress made by the Dutch in the Netherlands East Indies with the proposals which they had discussed here with the Prime Minister. It was important to ensure that our proposals did not cause embarrassment to the Dutch, who might already have difficulty in persuading the more intransigent sections of Dutch opinion to agree to the very liberal proposals which they were about to put forward.

THE COMMITTEE:

(1) Approved the draft White Paper attached to C.(46) 1 for submission to the Cabinet.

(2) Invited the Secretary of State for the Colonies to consult further with the Minister of State regarding the exact date of its publication, having regard to the difficulties of the Dutch in the Netherlands East Indies.

(3) Invited the Secretary of State for the Colonies to keep in close touch with the Secretary of State for India in making any future arrangements affecting the constitutional position of the Malay Rulers.

THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR DOMINION AFFAIRS drew attention to the fact that under the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Bill it was not necessary to obtain the prior approval of the House of Commons to Orders in Council relating to the constitution of the Straits Settlements, nor had the Orders to be laid before the House after issue.

THE LORD CHANCELLOR and THE FIRST LORD OF THE ADMIRALTY thought that the provision was one which might well be criticised and an amendment moved. It might be well to forestall criticism by themselves proposing an amendment.

THE PARLIAMENTARY UNDER-SECRETARY OF STATE FOR THE COLONIES said that it had not been the general principle that Orders in Council relating to Colonial constitutions should require the prior approval of Parliament. The question whether a change in this general principle should now be made had been discussed at a meeting of Ministers under the chairmanship of the Lord

===== Page 73 =====
President shortly before Christmas. There were certain difficulties about making a change. These were now being considered and a further meeting was then to be held. In this particular case the time factor was important. Military administration was to end in Malaya on 1st March and it was necessary that plans for civil administration should be ready by then. The substance of the Order in Council to be issued would be contained in the White Paper and it was hoped that this would forestall criticism on this particular point. He also hoped that by the time the Bill was debated in Parliament it would have been possible to reach a decision on the general question.

THE COMMITTEE:

(4) Took note of the position.

Cabinet Office, S.W.1.

8TH JANUARY, 1946.

===== Page 74 =====
CABINET

MALAYAN CONSTITUTIONS.

Note by the Acting Chairman of the Colonial Affairs Committee.

As my colleagues are aware, the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Bill is to be introduced in the House of Lords at the beginning of the next Session. This Bill is required to give effect to the new constitutional measures for Malaya which the Secretary of State for the Colonies announced in the House of Commons on the 10th October, 1945 (Hansard Volume 414, No. 13, Column 255).

2. The announcement only briefly outlined the proposed constitutional arrangements for the Malayan Union and Singapore, and it is desirable that further information in the form of a White Paper should be available for Members of both Houses when the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Bill is taken.

3. The Colonial Affairs Committee considered at a meeting on the 7th January, a draft White Paper which was prepared by the Secretary of State for the Colonies and the text of which is contained in the Annexe, and agreed to submit for early Cabinet approval a recommendation that the White Paper should be laid not later than the beginning of the next Session.

4. I trust that my colleagues will agree to this.

(Intld.) A.

DOMINIONS OFFICE,
DOWNING STREET,
8th January, 1946.

===== Page 75 =====
Statement of Policy for the Future Constitution of the Malayan Union and the Colony of Singapore.

Previous Position.

1. The territories concerned in this statement comprise first, the Colony of the Straits Settlements (that is to say Singapore, Penang, and Malacca, in Malaya; Labuan off the north coast of Borneo; and Christmas Island and the Cocos-Keeling Islands to the south of Sumatra), secondly, the Federated Malay States of Perak, Selangor, Negri Sembilan, and Pahang, in the Malay Peninsula; and thirdly, the Unfederated Malay States of Johor, Kedah, Kelantan, Trengganu, and Perlis, also in the Malay Peninsula. The Colony of the Straits Settlements was, before its occupation by the Japanese, under direct British administration. In the Malay States, on the other hand, British authority rested upon agreements concluded with the Rulers, under which each Ruler retained sovereignty in his State, though each was bound to accept British advice on all matters except Mohammedan religion and Malay custom. Administrative coordination was achieved by the Governor of the Straits Settlements in his capacity as High Commissioner for the Malay States. As Governor of the Straits Settlements, he was in direct charge of the Colony's administration; on matters pertaining to the Federated Malay States, as High Commissioner, he exercised his functions through the British Resident in each of the four States and through the Federal Secretary at the Headquarters of the Federal Government (Kuala Lumpur); on the business of the Unfederated Malay States, again as High Commissioner, he exercised his functions through an Adviser in each State. This coordination had, however, to be effected through a variety of legislatures and administrations. Legislation in the Colony was enacted by the Legislative Council of the Straits Settlements, legislation in the Federated Malay States by the Federal Council and each State Council, and legislation in each Unfederated Malay State by the State Council of each State. Uniformity of legislation in the Malay States, therefore, required separate action by at least six, and in some cases by ten, legislatures.

2. This divided and separatist position in a country significantly larger than England was formerly not inappropriate and in many ways indeed can be shown to have represented a necessary and useful stage in the development of the several States. But the increasing complexity of modern administrative, economic and social developments.

===== Page 76 =====
Developments demand a system of government less cumbersome, more adequate for large common services, and making better use of time and labour. A return to the old position would be manifestly contrary to the interests of the territories and their inhabitants in the post-war world, with its difficulties arising out of the war, and, for Malaya, the special problems created by the Japanese occupation. A stage has now been reached when the system of government should be simplified and reformed. International relations as well as the security and other interests of the British Commonwealth require that Malaya should be able to exercise an influence as a united and enlightened country appropriate to her economic and strategic importance. On a longer view, too, the pre-war system will not lend itself to that political adjustment which will offer, through broad-based institutions in which the whole community can participate, the means and prospect of developing Malaya's capacity in the direction of responsible self-government. In this development, all those who have made the country their homeland should have the opportunity of a due share in the country's political and cultural institutions. Efficiency and democratic progress alike demand therefore that the system of government should be simplified and reformed.

H.M. to possess jurisdiction in Malay States.

3. The British Crown must provide the common link which will draw together the communities of Malaya and promote a sense of common interest and the development of common institutions. Under the old situation, His Majesty had no jurisdiction in any of the Malay States, although under the Treaties the Malay Rulers had to accept British advice (except in matters of religion and custom). The new policy, however, requires that His Majesty should have jurisdiction in the Malay States so that he may be enabled to legislate for all the States alike under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act. Accordingly, Sir Harold MacMichael, as Special Representative of His Majesty's Government, has been engaged on a mission to the Malay States and has successfully concluded with each of the Malay Rulers, after consultations conducted with friendliness and goodwill, an Agreement which, supplementing the existing Treaties, grants full jurisdiction in each State to His Majesty.

For the directions given to Sir Harold MacMichael see Appendix 7.

Outline of proposals.

4. It is proposed that the present combination of the Straits Settlements of Penang, Malacca, and Singapore in one political unit should be readjusted on the following lines:

(a) the Settlement of Singapore should be a separate Colony; and

===== Page 77 =====
(b) The Settlements of Penang and Malacca should be administered with the Malay States in a Malayan Union.

These proposals will be carried into effect, so far as the Malay States are concerned, under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890, and, as regards the Straits Settlements, under legislation now before Parliament (the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Bill).

5. In considering the need for a closer political integration in Malaya, His Majesty's Government consider that, at least for the time being, Singapore requires separate treatment. It is a centre of entrepot trade on a very large scale and has economic and social interests distinct from those of the mainland. It is recognised, however, that there were and will be close ties between Singapore and the mainland, and it is no part of the policy of His Majesty's Government to preclude or prejudice in any way the fusion of Singapore and the Malayan Union in a wider union at a later date should it be considered that such a course were desirable.

6. As mentioned above, the Settlement of Singapore, with which will be included the Cocos-Keeling Islands and Christmas Island, will be constituted as the Colony of Singapore under a Governor with an Executive and a Legislative Council. During a transitional phase between the termination of the present military administration and the inauguration of the new constitution, the Governor will be empowered to legislate with the help of an Advisory Council, which he will be instructed to select on a basis as broadly representative as conditions in this phase allow. During this phase he will be instructed to give careful consideration to the questions of the composition of the Executive Council and of appointment and election to the Legislative Council, so as to ensure full and effective representation of the various sections of the community.

For the purposes of local government, the Municipality of Singapore, the Harbour Board, and the Singapore Improvement Trust will be reconstituted and set to work with the minimum of delay. During the transitional phase mentioned above the Governor will be instructed to give careful consideration to broadening the sphere of authority of the Municipal Commission and its basis of representation.

===== Page 78 =====
7. The constitution of the Malayan Union will provide for a central authority consisting of a Governor with an Executive and a Legislative Council. In each State and Settlement there will be a local Council which will have such powers of administrative and subsidiary legislation delegated to it by the central authority, as are appropriate to the purposes of local government. These Councils, both central and local, will consist of official and unofficial members; but, while it is the intention that their constitution shall be broad-based and representative, the final determination of numbers and of the details of representation will not be decided until there has been consultation with local opinion. In the initial phase after the termination of the Military Administration and before the new constitution is brought into effect, the Governor will be empowered to enact necessary legislation with the help of an Advisory Council, which he will be instructed to select on a basis as broadly representative as conditions in this phase allow. During this phase the Governor will be instructed to complete his local consultations with a view to the formal institution of the Executive and Legislative Councils as soon as possible.

These changes in the legislative system will have respect for the continuity of the principles of land policy in the Malay States. The Malay Lands Reservation policy, in particular, will be maintained.

8. His Majesty's Government have borne in mind the special position of the Malay Rulers as traditional and spiritual leaders of the Malay people. It is intended, therefore, that the Ruler in each State shall preside over a Malay Advisory Council whose members he will appoint, subject to the approval of the Governor. The main functions of these Malay Advisory Councils will relate to matters affecting Mohammedan religion; but they will also advise the Ruler on other matters at the request of the Resident Commissioner acting with the Governor's approval. On matters of Mohammedan religion, excepting the collection of tithes and taxes, each Ruler, with the help of his Council, will have legislative powers within his State. Such legislation will require the Governor's assent, and for this purpose, he will be assisted by a Central Advisory Council of the Malay Rulers sitting together under his Chairmanship. In addition to passing in review all legislation affecting Mohammedan religion, this central Advisory Council may discuss other matters.

===== Page 79 =====
Other subjects, either at the instance of the Governor or at the instance of any of the Rulers with the Governor's consent. By these arrangements, it will be ensured that each of the Rulers can play his part not only in the affairs of his State but in the future development of Malaya as a whole. Each Ruler will, of course, be assured of a Civil List appropriate to his dignity.

Subjects of pan-Malayan importance.

9. There will be a special need to develop harmonious and mutually profitable relations between the Malayan Union and Singapore on matters of trade. Subjects of pan-Malayan importance which require full identity of policy throughout Malaya, such as Higher Education, Immigration, Currency, Income Tax, Civil Aviation, Posts and Telegraphs, and Shipping, will be matters of common arrangement between the Union and the Colony. The currency will continue to be managed under pan-Malayan agreement.

Malayan Union Citizenship.

10. The policy of His Majesty's Government is to promote a broad-based citizenship which will include, without discrimination of race or creed, all who can establish a claim, by reason of birth or a suitable period of residence, to belong to the country. It is proposed, therefore, to create by Order in Council a Malayan Union Citizenship. The following persons will acquire Malayan Union Citizenship:

(a) persons born in the territory of the Union or of the Colony of Singapore;

(b) persons who at the date on which the Order in Council becomes operative have been ordinarily resident in those territories for ten years out of the preceding fifteen. (In calculating the fifteen years' period, the period of Japanese occupation will be disregarded).

It will also be possible for persons to acquire Malayan Union citizenship after five years' ordinary residence in the Malayan Union or Singapore. British subjects who acquire Malayan Union citizenship will not thereby lose their British nationality. Save with the consent of the Governor, no person who is not a Malayan Union citizen will be admitted to public office or membership of Central and Local Councils.

Those acquiring Malayan Union citizenship otherwise than by birth will be required to affirm allegiance to the Malayan Union.

Courts.

11. There will be a Supreme Court of the Malayan Union and a Supreme Court of Singapore, each with a Chief Justice at its head. Each will consist of a Court of first instance and a Court of Appeal. The Chief Justices and the puisne Judges of the Supreme Court of the Union and of Singapore respectively will be ex officio judges in the other territory.

There

===== Page 80 =====
There will be appeals to the Privy Council from both Courts of Appeal.

Transfer of State and Settlement Property to the Union.

12. Arrangements will be made for the transfer, with certain exceptions, of the assets and liabilities of each of the Malay States and of the Settlements of Penang and Malacca to the Malayan Union. It will be necessary to arrange for an apportionment of the assets and liabilities of the Government of the Straits Settlements between the Governments of Singapore and of the Malayan Union.

Governor-General.

13. The co-ordination and direction of the policies of Government in the Malayan Union and Singapore will be among the responsibilities of a Governor-General.

===== Page 81 =====
APPENDIX

The following are the directions which were given to Sir Harold MacMichael for his discussions with the Malay Rulers:

"You will visit Malaya, at a date to be agreed by the S.A.O.S.E.A., and invite each Malay Ruler's cooperation in the establishment of a fresh constitutional organisation of Malaya which has been approved by His Majesty's Government and communicated to you and which is intended to ensure and facilitate the progress of the people of the country towards unity and ultimate self-government within the British Empire.

"In furtherance of this object you are authorised as Special Representative of His Majesty's Government to conclude with each Ruler on behalf of His Majesty's Government a formal Agreement by which he will cede full jurisdiction to His Majesty in his State."

===== Page 82 =====
SECRET.

C. (46) 1st Meeting

COPY NO. 26

CABINET
COLONIAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE

MEETING to be held in the Lord Privy Seal's Room, Gwydyr House, S.W.1,
on MONDAY, 7TH JANUARY, 1946, at 3.00 p.m.

AGENDA

1. STATEMENT OF POLICY FOR THE FUTURE CONSTITUTION OF THE MALAYAN UNION AND THE COLONY OF SINGAPORE

Memorandum by the Secretary of State for the Colonies
(C. (46) 1 - to be circulated)

2. INTERNATIONAL TRUSTEESHIP SYSTEM: FUTURE OF TERRITORIES NOW HELD UNDER MANDATE

Memorandum by the Secretary of State for the Colonies
(C. (46) 2 - to be circulated)

(Signed) C.G. EASTWOOD
Secretary

Cabinet Office, S.W.1.
3RD JANUARY, 1946.

===== Page 83 =====
CABINET

COLONIAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE

MALAYAN CONSTITUTIONS

Memorandum by the Secretary of State for the Colonies.

As my colleagues are no doubt aware, the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Bill is to be introduced in the House of Lords at the beginning of the next Session. This Bill is required in order that effect may be given to the new Constitutional measures for Malaya which I announced in the House of Commons on the 10th October, 1945 (Hansard Volume 414, No. 13, Column 255).

The announcement in question gave only a brief outline of the proposed Constitutional arrangements for the Malayan Union and Singapore, and it is very desirable that some further information should be available for Members of both Houses when the Straits Settlements Bill is taken.

I therefore recommend that a White Paper giving this information should be laid not later than the beginning of the next Session, and I attach a draft which has been prepared for this purpose.

I trust that my colleagues will agree that my recommendation should be adopted and should be submitted forthwith for Cabinet approval, so that the White Paper may be available as soon as Parliament reassembles.

It is desirable that the substance of the White Paper should be made public in Malaya on or about the same time as it is laid before Parliament. This is another reason for early approval of the White Paper.

Colonial Office,

3rd January, 1946.

A. C. J. for G. H.

===== Page 84 =====
MALAYA

Statement of Policy for the future constitution of the Malayan Union and the Colony of Singapore.

Previous position.

1. The territories concerned in this statement comprise first, the Colony of the Straits Settlements (that is to say Singapore, Penang, and Malacca, in Malaya; Labuan off the north coast of Borneo; and Christmas Island and the Cocos-Keeling Islands to the south of Sumatra); secondly, the Federated Malay States of Perak, Selangor, Negri Sembilan, and Pahang, in the Malay Peninsula; and thirdly, the Unfederated Malay States of Johore, Kedah, Kelantan, Trengganu and Perlis, also in the Malay Peninsula. The Colony of the Straits Settlements was, before its occupation by the Japanese, under direct British administration. In the Malay States, on the other hand, British authority rested upon agreements concluded with the Rulers, under which each Ruler retained sovereignty in his State, though each was bound to accept British advice on all matters except Mohammedan religion and Malay custom. Administrative co-ordination was achieved by the Governor of the Straits Settlements in his capacity as High Commissioner for the Malay States. As Governor of the Straits Settlements he was in direct charge of the Colony's administration; on matters pertaining to the Federated Malay States, as High Commissioner, he exercised his functions through the British Resident in each of the four States and through the Federal Secretary at the Headquarters of the Federal Government (Kuala Lumpur); on the business of the Unfederated Malay States, again as High Commissioner, he exercised his functions through an Adviser in each State. This co-ordination had, however, to be effected through a variety of legislatures and administrations. Legislation in the Colony was enacted by the Legislative Council of the Straits Settlements, legislation in the Federated Malay States by the Federal Council and each State Council, and legislation in each Unfederated Malay State by the State Council of each State. Uniformity of legislation in the Malay States, therefore, required separate action by at least six, and in some cases by ten, legislatures.

Need for reform.

2. This divided and separatist position in a small country slightly larger than England was formerly not inappropriate and in many ways indeed can be shown to have represented a necessary and useful stage in the development of the several States. But with the increasing complexity of modern administrative, economic and social developments

===== Page 85 =====
Developments: It is unnecessarily cumbersome, inadequate for large common services, and wasteful of time and personnel. A return to this position would be manifestly contrary to the interests of the territories and their inhabitants in the post-war world, with its difficulties arising out of the war, and, for Malaya, the special problems created by the Japanese occupation. A stage has now been reached when the system of government should be simplified and reformed. International relations as well as the security and other interests of the British Commonwealth require that Malaya should be able to exercise an influence as a united and enlightened country appropriate to her economic and strategic importance. On a longer view, too, the pre-war system will not lend itself to that political adjustment which will offer, through broad-based institutions in which the whole community can participate, the means and prospect of developing Malaya's capacity in the direction of responsible self-government. In this development all those who have made the country their homeland should have the opportunity of a due share in the country's political and cultural institutions. Efficiency and democratic progress alike demand therefore that the system of government should be simplified and reformed.

H.M. to possess jurisdiction in Malay States.

3. The British Crown must provide the common link which will draw together the communities of Malaya and promote a sense of common interest and the development of common institutions. His Majesty's Government has therefore concluded that the old situation, in which His Majesty had no jurisdiction in the Malay States should be remedied and that fresh arrangements should be made with each of the Malay Rulers, under which such jurisdiction will be ceded to His Majesty as will enable him to legislate for the States under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act. Accordingly Sir Harold MacMichael, as Special Representative of His Majesty's Government, has been engaged on a mission to the Malay States and has successfully concluded with each of the Malay Rulers after friendly discussion and consultation an Agreement which, supplementing the existing Treaties, grants full jurisdiction in each State to His Majesty.

For the directions given to Sir Harold MacMichael, see Appendix.

Outline of proposals.

4. It is proposed that the present combination of the Straits Settlements of Penang, Malacca, and Singapore in one political unit should be readjusted on the following lines:

(a) The Settlement of Singapore should be a separate Colony; and

===== Page 86 =====
(b) The Settlements of Penang and Malacca should be administered with the Malay States in a Malayan Union.

These proposals will be carried into effect, so far as the Malay States are concerned, under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890, and, as regards the Straits Settlements, under legislation now before Parliament (the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Bill).

5. In considering the need for a closer political integration in Malaya, His Majesty's Government consider that, at least for the time being, Singapore requires separate treatment. It is a centre of entrepot trade on a very large scale and has economic and social interests distinct from those of the mainland. It is recognised, however, that there were and will be close ties between Singapore and the mainland, and it is no part of the policy of His Majesty's Government to preclude or prejudice in any way the fusion of Singapore and the Malayan Union in a wider union at a later date should it be considered that such a course were desirable.

6. As mentioned above, the Settlement of Singapore, with which will be included the Cocos-Keeling Islands and Christmas Island, will be constituted as the Colony of Singapore under a Governor with an Executive and a Legislative Council. During a transitional phase between the termination of the present military administration and the inauguration of the new constitution, the Governor will be empowered to legislate with the help of an Advisory Council, which he will be instructed to select on a basis as broadly representative as conditions in this phase allow. During this phase he will be instructed to give careful consideration to the questions of the composition of the Executive Council and of appointment and election to the Legislative Council, so as to ensure full and effective representation of the various sections of the community.

For the purposes of local government, the Municipality of Singapore, the Harbour Board, and the Singapore Improvement Trust will be reconstituted and set to work with the minimum of delay. During the transitional phase mentioned above the Governor will be instructed to give careful consideration to broadening the sphere of authority of the Municipal Commission and its basis of representation.

===== Page 87 =====
7. The constitution of the Malayan Union will provide for a central authority consisting of a Governor with an Executive and a Legislative Council. In each State and Settlement, there will be a local Council which will have such powers of administrative and subsidiary legislation delegated to it by the central authority, as are appropriate to the purposes of local government. These Councils, both central and local, will consist of official and unofficial members; but, while it is the intention that their constitution shall be broad-based and representative, the final determination of numbers and of the details of representation will not be decided until there has been consultation with local opinion. In the initial phase after the termination of the Military Administration and before the new constitution is brought into effect, the Governor will be empowered to enact necessary legislation with the help of an Advisory Council, which he will be instructed to select on a basis as broadly representative as conditions in this phase allow. During this phase, the Governor will be instructed to complete his local consultations with a view to the formal institution of the Executive and Legislative Councils as soon as possible.

These changes in the legislative system will have respect for the continuity of the principles of land policy in the Malay States. The Malay Lands Reservation policy, in particular, will be maintained.

8. His Majesty's Government have borne in mind the special position of the Malay Rulers as traditional and spiritual leaders of the Malay people. It is intended, therefore, that the Ruler in each State shall preside over a Malay Advisory Council whose members he will appoint, subject to the approval of the Governor. The main functions of these Malay Advisory Councils will relate to matters affecting Mohammedan religion; but they will also advise the Ruler on other matters at the request of the Resident Commissioner acting with the Governor's approval. On matters of Mohammedan religion, excepting the collection of tithes and taxes, each Ruler, with the help of his Council, will have legislative powers within his State. Such legislation will require the Governor's assent, and for this purpose he will be assisted by a Central Advisory Council of the Malay Rulers sitting together under his Chairmanship. In addition to passing in review all legislation affecting Mohammedan religion, this Central Advisory Council may discuss other [POSSIBLY MISSING].

===== Page 88 =====
Other subjects, either at the instance of the Governor or at the instance of any of the Rulers with the Governor's consent. By these arrangements, it will be ensured that each of the Rulers can play his part not only in the affairs of his State but in the future development of Malaya as a whole. Each Ruler will of course be assured of a Civil List appropriate to his dignity.

Subjects of pan-Malayan importance.

9. There will be a special need to develop harmonious and mutually profitable relations between the Malayan Union and Singapore on matters of trade. Subjects of pan-Malayan importance which require full identity of policy throughout Malaya — such as Higher Education, Immigration, Currency, Income Tax, Civil Aviation, Posts and Telegraphs, and Shipping — will be matters of common arrangement between the Union and the Colony. The currency will continue to be managed under pan-Malayan agreement.

Malayan Union Citizenship.

10. The policy of His Majesty's Government is to promote a broad-based citizenship which will include, without discrimination of race or creed, all who can establish a claim, by reason of birth or a suitable period of residence, to belong to the country. It is proposed, therefore, to create by Order in Council a Malayan Union Citizenship. The following persons will acquire Malayan Union Citizenship:

(a) persons born in the territory of the Union or of the Colony of Singapore;

(b) persons who at the date on which the Order in Council becomes operative have been ordinarily resident in those territories for ten years out of the preceding fifteen. (In calculating the fifteen years' period, the period of Japanese occupation will be disregarded).

It will also be possible for persons to acquire Malayan Union citizenship after five years' ordinary residence in the Malayan Union or Singapore. British subjects who acquire Malayan Union citizenship will not thereby lose their British nationality. Save with the consent of the Governor, no person who is not a Malayan Union citizen will be admitted to public office or membership of Central and Local Councils.

Those acquiring Malayan Union citizenship otherwise than by birth will be required to affirm allegiance to the Malayan Union.

Courts.

11. There will be a Supreme Court of the Malayan Union and a Supreme Court of Singapore, each with a Chief Justice at its head. Each will consist of a Court of first instance and a Court of Appeal. The Chief Justices and the puisne Judges of the Supreme Court of the Union and of Singapore respectively will be ex officio judges in the other territory.

There

===== Page 89 =====
There will be appeals to the Privy Council from both Courts of Appeal.

12. Arrangements will be made for the transfer, with certain exceptions, of the assets and liabilities of each of the Malay States and of the Settlements of Penang and Malacca to the Malayan Union. It will be necessary to arrange for an apportionment of the assets and liabilities of the Government of the Straits Settlements between the Governments of Singapore and of the Malayan Union.

13. The co-ordination and direction of the policies of Government in the Malayan Union and Singapore will be among the responsibilities of a Governor-General.

===== Page 90 =====
APPENDIX

The following are the directions which were given to Sir Harold MacMichael for his discussions with the Malay Rulers:

"You will visit Malaya, at a date to be agreed by the S.A.C.S.E.A., and invite each Malay Ruler's co-operation in the establishment of a fresh constitutional organisation of Malaya which has been approved by His Majesty's Government and communicated to you and which is intended to ensure and facilitate the progress of the people of the country towards unity and ultimate self-government within the British Empire.

"In furtherance of this object you are authorised as Special Representative of His Majesty's Government to conclude with each Ruler on behalf of His Majesty's Government a formal Agreement by which he will cede full jurisdiction to His Majesty in his State."

===== Page 91 =====
CABINET
COLONIAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
MALAYAN CONSTITUTIONS

Memorandum by the Secretary of State for the Colonies.

As my colleagues are no doubt aware, the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Bill is to be introduced in the House of Lords at the beginning of the next Session. This Bill is required in order that effect may be given to the new Constitutional measures for Malaya which I announced in the House of Commons on the 10th October, 1945 (Hansard Volume 414, No. 13, Column 255).

The announcement in question gave only a brief outline of the proposed Constitutional arrangements for the Malayan Union and Singapore, and it is very desirable that some further information should be available for Members of both Houses when the Straits Settlements Bill is taken.

I therefore recommend that a White Paper giving this information should be laid not later than the beginning of the next Session, and I attach a draft which has been prepared for this purpose.

I trust that my colleagues will agree that my recommendation should be adopted and should be submitted forthwith for Cabinet approval, so that the White Paper may be available as soon as Parliament reassembles.

It is desirable that the substance of the White Paper should be made public in Malaya on or about the same time as it is laid before Parliament. This is another reason for early approval of the White Paper.

Colonial Office,

2nd January, 1946.

===== Page 92 =====
MALAYA

Statement of Policy for the future constitution of the Malayan Union and the Colony of Singapore.

1. The territories concerned in this statement comprise first, the Colony of the Straits Settlements (that is to say Singapore, Penang, and Malacca, in Malaya; Labuan off the north coast of Borneo; and Christmas Island and the Cocos-Keeling Islands to the south of Sumatra); secondly, the Federated Malay States of Perak, Selangor, Negri Sembilan, and Pahang, in the Malay Peninsula; and thirdly, the Unfederated Malay States of Johore, Kedah, Kelantan, Trengganu, and Perlis, also in the Malay Peninsula. The Colony of the Straits Settlements was, before its occupation by the Japanese, under direct British administration. In the Malay States, on the other hand, British authority rested upon agreements concluded with the Rulers, under which each Ruler retained sovereignty in his State, though each was bound to accept British advice on all matters except Mohammedan religion and Malay custom. Administrative co-ordination was achieved by the Governor of the Straits Settlements in his capacity as High Commissioner for the Malay States. As Governor of the Straits Settlements he was in direct charge of the Colony's administration; on matters pertaining to the Federated Malay States, as High Commissioner, he exercised his functions through the British Resident in each of the four States and through the Federal Secretary at the Headquarters of the Federal Government (Kuala Lumpur); on the business of the Unfederated Malay States, again as High Commissioner, he exercised his functions through an Adviser

===== Page 93 =====
Adviser in each State. This coordination had, however, to be effected through a variety of legislatures and administrations. Legislation in the Colony was enacted by the Legislative Council of the Straits Settlements, legislation in the Federated Malay States by the Federal Council and each State Council, and legislation in each Unfederated Malay State by the State Council of each State. Uniformity of legislation in the Malay States, therefore, required separate action by at least six, and in some cases by ten, legislatures.

2. This divided and separatist position in a small country slightly larger than England was formerly not inappropriate and in many ways indeed can be shown to have represented a necessary and useful stage in the development of the several States. But with the increasing complexity of modern administrative, economic and social developments it is unnecessarily cumbersome, inadequate for large common services, and wasteful of time and personnel. A return to this position would be manifestly contrary to the interests of the territories and their inhabitants in the post-war world, with its difficulties arising out of the war, and, for Malaya, the special problems created by the Japanese occupation. A stage has now been reached when the system of government should be simplified and reformed. International relations as well as the security and other interests of the British Commonwealth require that Malaya should be able to exercise an influence as a united and enlightened country appropriate to her economic and strategic importance. On a longer view, too, the pre-war system will not lend itself to that political adjustment which will offer, through broad-based institutions in which the whole community can participate, the means and prospect of developing Malaya's capacity in the direction of responsible self-government. In this development all

===== Page 94 =====
Those who have made the country their homeland should have the opportunity of a due share in the country's political and cultural institutions. Efficiency and democratic progress alike demand therefore that the system of government should be simplified and reformed.

3. The British Crown must provide the common link which will draw together the communities of Malaya and promote a sense of common interest and the development of common institutions. His Majesty's Government has therefore concluded that the old situation, in which His Majesty had no jurisdiction in the Malay States, should be remedied and that fresh arrangements should be made with each of the Malay Rulers, under which such jurisdiction will be ceded to His Majesty as will enable him to legislate for the States under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act. Accordingly, Sir Harold MacMichael, as Special Representative of His Majesty's Government, has been engaged on a mission to the Malay States and has successfully concluded with each of the Malay Rulers after friendly discussion and consultation an Agreement which, supplementing the existing Treaties, grants full jurisdiction in each State to His Majesty.

For the directions given to Sir Harold MacMichael, see Appendix.

4. It is proposed that the present combination of the Straits Settlements of Penang, Malacca, and Singapore in one political unit should be readjusted on the following lines:

(a) the Settlement of Singapore should be a separate Colony; and

(b) the Settlements of Penang and Malacca should be administered with the Malay States in a Malayan Union.

These proposals will be carried into effect, so far as the Malay States are concerned, under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act.

===== Page 95 =====
Act, 1890, and, as regards the Straits Settlements, under legislation now before Parliament (the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Bill).

5. In considering the need for a closer political integration in Malaya, His Majesty's Government consider that, at least for the time being, Singapore requires separate treatment. It is a centre of entrepot trade on a very large scale and has economic and social interests distinct from those of the mainland. It is recognised, however, that there were and will be close ties between Singapore and the mainland, and it is no part of the policy of His Majesty's Government to preclude or prejudice in any way the fusion of Singapore and the Malayan Union in a wider union at a later date should it be considered that such a course were desirable.

6. As mentioned above, the Settlement of Singapore, with which will be included the Cocos-Keeling Islands and Christmas Island, will be constituted as the Colony of Singapore under a Governor with an Executive and a Legislative Council. During a transitional phase between the termination of the present military administration and the inauguration of the new constitution, the Governor will be empowered to legislate with the help of an Advisory Council, which he will be instructed to select on a basis as broadly representative as conditions in this phase allow. During this phase he will be instructed to give careful consideration to the questions of the composition of the Executive Council and of appointment and election to the Legislative Council, so as to ensure full and effective representation of the various sections of the community.

For the purposes of local government, the Municipality of Singapore, the Harbour Board, and the Singapore Improvement Trust will be reconstituted and set to work with

===== Page 96 =====
The minimum of delay. During the transitional phase mentioned above the Governor will be instructed to give careful consideration to broadening the sphere of authority of the Municipal Commission and its basis of representation.

7. The constitution of the Malayan Union will provide for a central authority consisting of a Governor with an Executive and a Legislative Council. In each State and Settlement there will be a local Council which will have such powers of subsidiary legislation delegated to it by the central authority, as are appropriate to the purposes of local government. These Councils, both central and local, will consist of official and unofficial members; but, while it is the intention that their constitution shall be broad-based and representative, the final determination of numbers and of the details of representation will not be decided until there has been consultation with local opinion. In the initial phase after the termination of the Military Administration and before the new constitution is brought into effect, the Governor will be empowered to enact necessary legislation with the help of an Advisory Council, which he will be instructed to select on a basis as broadly representative as conditions in this phase allow. During this phase the Governor will be instructed to complete his local consultations with a view to the formal institution of the Executive and Legislative Councils as soon as possible.

These changes in the legislative system will have respect for the continuity of the principles of land policy in the Malay States. The Malay Lands Reservation policy, in particular, will be maintained.

8. His Majesty's Government have borne in mind the special position of the Malay Rulers as traditional and spiritual leaders of the Malay people. It is intended, therefore,

===== Page 97 =====
Therefore, that the Ruler in each State shall preside over a Malay Advisory Council whose members he will appoint, subject to the approval of the Governor. The main functions of these Malay Advisory Councils will relate to matters affecting Mohammedan religion; but they will also advise the Ruler on other matters at the request of the Resident Commissioner acting with the Governor's approval. On matters of Mohammedan religion, excepting the collection of tithes and taxes, each Ruler, with the help of his Council, will have legislative powers within his State. Such legislation will require the Governor's assent, and for this purpose he will be assisted by a Central Advisory Council of the Malay Rulers sitting together under his Chairmanship. In addition to passing in review all legislation affecting Mohammedan religion, this Central Advisory Council may discuss other subjects, either at the instance of the Governor or at the instance of any of the Rulers with the Governor's consent. By these arrangements it will be ensured that each of the Rulers can play his part not only in the affairs of his State but in the future development of Malaya as a whole. Each Ruler will of course be assured of a Civil List appropriate to his dignity.

Subjects of pan-Malayan importance.

9. There will be a special need to develop harmonious and mutually profitable relations between the Malayan Union and Singapore on matters of trade. Subjects of pan-Malayan importance which require full identity of policy throughout Malaya, such as Higher Education, Immigration, Currency, Income Tax, Civil Aviation, Posts and Telegraphs, and Shipping, will be matters of common arrangement between the Union and the Colony. The currency will continue to be managed under pan-Malayan agreement.

Malayan Union Citizenship: a broad-based citizenship which will include, without discrimination.

===== Page 98 =====
Discrimination of race or creed, all who can establish a claim, by reason of birth or a suitable period of residence, to belong to the country. It is proposed, therefore, to create by Order in Council a Malayan Union Citizenship.

The following persons will acquire Malayan Union Citizenship:

(a) persons born in the territory of the Union or of the Colony of Singapore;

(b) persons who at the date on which the Order in Council becomes operative have been ordinarily resident in those territories for ten years out of the preceding fifteen. (In calculating the fifteen years' period, the period of Japanese occupation will be disregarded).

It will also be possible for persons to acquire Malayan Union citizenship after five years' ordinary residence in the Malayan Union or Singapore. British subjects who acquire Malayan Union citizenship will not thereby lose their British nationality. Save with the consent of the Governor, no person who is not a Malayan Union citizen will be admitted to public office or membership of Central and Local Councils.

Those acquiring Malayan Union citizenship otherwise than by birth will be required to affirm allegiance to the Malayan Union.

Courts.

11. There will be a Supreme Court of the Malayan Union and a Supreme Court of Singapore, each with a Chief Justice at its head. Each will consist of a Court of first instance and a Court of Appeal. The Chief Justices and the puisne Judges of the Supreme Court of the Union and of Singapore respectively will be ex officio judges in the other territory. There will be appeals to the Privy Council from both Courts of Appeal.

12. Arrangements will be made for the transfer, with certain exceptions, of the assets and liabilities of each of the Malay States and of the Settlements of Penang and Malacca.

===== Page 99 =====
To the Malayan Union, it will be necessary to arrange for an apportionment of the assets and liabilities of the Government of the Straits Settlements between the Governments of Singapore and of the Malayan Union.

13. The co-ordination and direction of the policies of Government in the Malayan Union and Singapore will be among the responsibilities of a Governor-General.

APPENDIX.

The following are the directions which were given to Sir Harold MacMichael for his discussions with the Malay Rulers:

"You will visit Malaya, at a date to be agreed by the S.A.C.S.E.A., and invite each Malay Ruler's co-operation in the establishment of a fresh constitutional organisation of Malaya which has been approved by His Majesty's Government and communicated to you and which is intended to ensure and facilitate the progress of the people of the country towards unity and ultimate self-government within the British Empire.

"In furtherance of this object you are authorised as Special Representative of His Majesty's Government to conclude with each Ruler on behalf of His Majesty's Government a formal Agreement by which he will cede full jurisdiction to His Majesty in his State."

===== Page 100 =====
Dear Logan,

You kindly agreed to take out with you certain papers for the attention of the authorities in Malaya, and these are enclosed.

(a) The draft of the "Indemnity and Validating Ordinance - 1946" for the Malayan Union and Singapore Colony. You will wish to draw this to the attention of both SAOSEA and B.M.A. (M) and to ask them to signal as soon as possible their comments and approval if the text is found satisfactory.

This latest text contains revisions resulting from the Colonial Office which you attended on 10th December and I understand that the text has now been approved by the Crown Agents.

We would be glad if you could arrange for SAOSEA and B.M.A. (M) to signal that they had received these particular papers and that they would be forwarding their comments at the earliest possible date.

I enclose 5 copies.

(b) The latest draft of the proposed White Paper on the future constitutional arrangements for Malaya, in the form in which it is being sent forward to the Colonial Affairs Committee of the Cabinet. This is

/for

MAJOR C.C.M. LOGAN.

===== Page 101 =====
For information only, and it will be appreciated that this is not necessarily the Paper in its finally approved form.

(c) Two copies of the draft of the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Bill which it is intended will be introduced in Parliament immediately after the Recess (January 22nd), at which time it is proposed to publish also the White Paper, with a simultaneous release of the text of the Paper in Malaya.

May I wish you a safe and interesting journey.

Yours sincerely,

===== Page 102 =====
CABINET

COLONIAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE

MALAYAN CONSTITUTIONS

Memorandum by the Secretary of State for the Colonies

As my colleagues are no doubt aware, the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Bill is to be introduced in the House of Lords at the beginning of the next Session. This Bill is required in order that effect may be given to the new Constitutional measures for Malaya which I announced in the House of Commons on the 10th October, 1945 (Hansard Volume 414, No.13, Column 255).

The announcement in question gave only a brief outline of the proposed Constitutional arrangements for the Malayan Union and Singapore, and it is very desirable that some further information should be available for Members of both Houses when the Straits Settlements Bill is taken.

I therefore recommend that a White Paper giving this information should be laid not later than the beginning of the next Session, and I attach a draft which has been prepared for this purpose.

I trust that my colleagues will agree that my recommendation should be adopted and should be submitted forthwith for Cabinet approval, so that the White Paper may be available as soon as Parliament reassembles.

It is desirable that the substance of the White Paper should be made public in Malaya on

===== Page 103 =====
or about the same time as it is laid before Parliament. This is another reason for early approval of the White Paper.

Colonial Office,
2nd January, 1946.

===== Page 104 =====
MALAYA

Statement of Policy for the future constitution of the Malayan Union and the Colony of Singapore.

Previous position.

1. The territories concerned in this statement comprise, first, the Colony of the Straits Settlements (that is to say Singapore, Penang, and Malacca, in Malaya; Labuan off the north coast of Borneo; and Christmas Island and the Cocos-Keeling Islands to the south of Sumatra); secondly, the Federated Malay States of Perak, Selangor, Negri Sembilan, and Pahang, in the Malay Peninsula; and thirdly, the Unfederated Malay States of Johore, Kedah, Kelantan, Trengganu and Perlis, also in the Malay Peninsula. The Colony of the Straits Settlements was, before its occupation by the Japanese, under direct British administration. In the Malay States, on the other hand, British authority rested upon agreements concluded with the Rulers, under which each Ruler retained sovereignty in his State, though each was bound to accept British advice on all matters except Mohammedan religion and Malay custom. Administrative co-ordination was achieved by the Governor of the Straits Settlements in his capacity as High Commissioner for the Malay States. As Governor of the Straits Settlements he was in direct charge of the Colony's administration; on matters pertaining to the Federated Malay States, as High Commissioner, he exercised his functions through the British Resident in each of the four States and through the Federal Secretary at the Headquarters of the Federal Government (Kuala Lumpur); on the business of the Unfederated Malay States, again as High Commissioner, he exercised his functions through an Adviser in each State. This co-ordination had, however, to be

===== Page 105 =====
Effected through a variety of legislatures and administrations. Legislation in the Colony was enacted by the Legislative Council of the Straits Settlements, legislation in the Federated Malay States by the Federal Council and each State Council, and legislation in each Unfederated Malay State by the State Council of each State. Uniformity of legislation in the Malay States, therefore, required separate action by at least six, and in some cases by ten, legislatures.

2. This divided and separatist position in a small country slightly larger than England was formerly not inappropriate and in many ways indeed can be shown to have represented a necessary and useful stage in the development of the several States. But with the increasing complexity of modern administrative, economic and social developments it is unnecessarily cumbersome, inadequate for large common services, and wasteful of time and personnel. A return to this position would be manifestly contrary to the interests of the territories and their inhabitants in the post-war world, with its difficulties arising out of the war, and, for Malaya, the special problems created by the Japanese occupation. A stage has now been reached when the system of government should be simplified and reformed. International relations, as well as the security and other interests of the British Commonwealth, require that Malaya should be able to exercise an influence as a united and enlightened country appropriate to her economic and strategic importance. On a longer view, too, the pre-war system will not lend itself to that political adjustment which will offer, through broad-based institutions in which the whole community can participate, the means and prospect of developing Malaya's capacity in the direction

===== Page 106 =====
of responsible self-government. In this development, all those who have made the country their homeland should have the opportunity of a due share in the country's political and cultural institutions. Efficiency and democratic progress alike demand, therefore, that the system of government should be simplified and reformed.

3. The British Crown must provide the common link which will draw together the communities of Malaya and promote a sense of common interest and the development of common institutions. His Majesty's Government has therefore concluded that the old situation, in which His Majesty had no jurisdiction in the Malay States, should be remedied and that fresh arrangements should be made with each of the Malay Rulers, under which such jurisdiction will be ceded to His Majesty as will enable him to legislate for the States under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act. Accordingly, Sir Harold MacMichael, as Special Representative of His Majesty's Government, has been engaged on a mission to the Malay States and has successfully concluded with each of the Malay Rulers, after friendly discussion and consultation, an Agreement which, supplementing the existing Treaties, grants full jurisdiction in each State to His Majesty.

4. It is proposed that the present combination of the Straits Settlements of Penang, Malacca, and Singapore in one political unit should be readjusted on the following lines:

(a) the Settlement of Singapore should be a separate Colony; and

(b) the Settlements of Penang and Malacca should be administered with the Malay States in a Malayan Union.

===== Page 107 =====
These proposals will be carried into effect, so far as the Malay States are concerned, under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890, and, as regards the Straits Settlements, under legislation now before Parliament (the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Bill).

5. In considering the need for a closer political integration in Malaysia, His Majesty's Government consider that, at least for the time being, Singapore requires separate treatment. It is a centre of entrepot trade on a very large scale and has economic and social interests distinct from those of the mainland. It is recognised, however, that there were and will be close ties between Singapore and the mainland, and it is no part of the policy of His Majesty's Government to preclude or prejudice in any way the fusion of Singapore and the Malayan Union in a wider union at a later date should it be considered that such a course were desirable.

6. As mentioned above, the Settlement of Singapore, with which will be included the Cocos-Keeling Islands and Christmas Island, will be constituted as the Colony of Singapore under a Governor with an Executive and a Legislative Council. For the purposes of local government, it is intended that as broad and representative a basis as possible should be given to the restored Municipality of Singapore. During a transitional phase between the termination of the present military administration and the inauguration of the new constitution, the Governor will be empowered to legislate with the help of an Advisory Council. During this phase he will be instructed to give careful consideration to the questions of the composition of the Executive Council and of appointment and election to the Legislative Council and to the Municipal Commission, so as to ensure full and effective representation of the various sections of the community.

===== Page 108 =====
These proposals will be carried into effect so far as the Malay States are concerned, under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890, and, as regards the Straits Settlements, under legislation now before Parliament (the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Bill).

5. In considering the need for a closer political integration in Malaya, His Majesty's Government consider that, at least for the time being, Singapore requires separate treatment. It is a centre of entrepot trade on a very large scale and has economic and social interests distinct from those of the mainland. It is recognised, however, that there were and will be close ties between Singapore and the mainland, and it is no part of the policy of His Majesty's Government to preclude or prejudice in any way the fusion of Singapore and the Malayan Union in a wider union at a later date should it be considered that such a course were desirable.

6. As mentioned above, the Settlement of Singapore, with which will be included the Cocos-Keeling Islands and Christmas Island, will be constituted as the Colony of Singapore under a Governor with an Executive and a Legislative Council. During a transitional phase between the termination of the present military administration and the inauguration of the new constitution, the Governor will be empowered to legislate with the help of an Advisory Council, which he will be instructed to select on a basis as broadly representative as conditions in this phase allow. During this phase he will be instructed to give careful consideration to the questions of the composition of the Executive Council and of appointment and election to the Legislative Council, so as to ensure full and effective representation of the various sections of the community.

For the purposes of local government, the Municipality of Singapore, the Harbour Board, and the Singapore Improvement Trust will be reconstituted and set to work with the minimum of delay. During the transitional phase mentioned above the Governor will be instructed to give careful consideration to broadening the sphere of authority of the Municipal Commission and its basis of representation.

===== Page 109 =====
7. The constitution of the Malayan Union will provide for a central authority consisting of a Governor with an Executive and a Legislative Council. In each State and Settlement there will be a local Council which will have legislative powers, delegated to it by the central authority, appropriate to the purposes of local government. These Councils, both central and local, will consist of official and unofficial members; but, while it is the intention that their constitution shall be broad-based and representative, the final determination of numbers and of the details of representation will not be decided until there has been consultation with local opinion. In the initial phase after the termination of the Military Administration and before the new constitution is brought into effect, the Governor will be empowered to enact necessary legislation with the help of an Advisory Council, and during this phase the Governor will be instructed to complete his local consultations with a view to the formal institution of the Executive and Legislative Councils as soon as possible.

These changes in the legislative system will have respect for the continuity of the principles of land policy in the Malay States. The Malay Lands Reservation policy, in particular, will be maintained.

8. His Majesty's Government have borne in mind the special position of the Malay Rulers as traditional and spiritual leaders of the Malay people. It is intended, therefore, that the Ruler in each State shall preside over a Malay Advisory Council whose members he will appoint, subject to the approval of the Governor. The main functions of these Malay Advisory Councils will relate to matters affecting Mohammedan religion; but they will also advise the Ruler on other matters at the request of the Resident Commissioner acting with the Governor's approval. On matters

===== Page 110 =====
Of Mohammedan religion, excepting the collection of tithes and taxes, each Ruler, with the help of his Council, will have legislative powers within his State. Such legislation will require the Governor's assent, and for this purpose he will be assisted by a Central Advisory Council of the Malay Rulers sitting together under his Chairmanship. In addition to passing in review all legislation affecting Mohammedan religion, this Central Advisory Council may discuss other subjects, either at the instance of the Governor or at the instance of any of the Rulers with the Governor's consent. By these arrangements, it will be ensured that each of the Rulers can play his part not only in the affairs of his State but in the future development of Malaya as a whole. Each Ruler will, of course, be assured of a Civil List appropriate to his dignity.

9. There will be a special need to develop harmonious and mutually profitable relations between the Malayan Union and Singapore on matters of trade. Subjects of pan-Malayan importance, such as Higher Education, Immigration, Currency, Civil Aviation, Posts and Telegraphs, and Shipping, which require full identity of policy throughout Malaya, will be matters of common arrangement between the Union and the Colony. The currency will continue to be managed under pan-Malayan agreement.

10. The policy of His Majesty's Government is to promote a broad-based citizenship which will include, without discrimination of race or creed, all who can establish a claim, by reason of birth or a suitable period of residence, to belong to the country. It is proposed, therefore, to create by Order in Council a Malayan Union Citizenship. The following persons will acquire Malayan Union Citizenship:


===== Page 111 =====
(a) Persons born in the territory of the Union or of the Colony of Singapore.

(b) Persons who at the date on which the Order in Council becomes operative have been ordinarily resident in those territories for ten years out of the preceding fifteen. (In calculating the fifteen years' period, the period of Japanese occupation will be disregarded).

It will also be possible for persons to acquire Malayan Union citizenship after five years' ordinary residence in the Malayan Union or Singapore. British subjects who acquire Malayan Union citizenship will not thereby lose their British nationality. Save with the consent of the Governor, no person who is not a Malayan Union citizen will be admitted to public office or membership of Central and Local Councils.

Those acquiring Malayan Union citizenship otherwise than by birth will be required to affirm allegiance to the Malayan Union.

11. There will be a Supreme Court of the Malayan Union and a Supreme Court of Singapore, each with a Chief Justice at its head. Each will consist of a Court of first instance and a Court of Appeal. The Chief Justices and the puisne Judges of the Supreme Court of the Union and of Singapore respectively will be ex officio judges in the other territory. There will be appeals to the Privy Council from both Courts of Appeal.

12. Arrangements will be made for the transfer, with certain exceptions, of the assets and liabilities of each of the Malay States and of the Settlements of Penang and Malacca to the Malayan Union. It will be necessary to arrange for an apportionment of the assets and liabilities of the Government of the Straits Settlements between

===== Page 112 =====
The Governments of Singapore and of the Malayan Union.

13. The coordination and direction of the policies of Government in the Malayan Union and Singapore will be among the responsibilities of a Governor-General.

APPENDIX.

The following are the directions which were given to Sir Harold MacMichael for his discussions with the Malay Rulers:

"You will visit Malaya, at a date to be agreed by the S.A.C.S.E.A., and invite each Malay Ruler's cooperation in the establishment of a fresh constitutional organisation of Malaya which has been approved by His Majesty's Government and communicated to you and which is intended to ensure and facilitate the progress of the people of the country towards unity and ultimate self-government within the British Empire.

"In furtherance of this object you are authorised as Special Representative of His Majesty's Government to conclude with each Ruler on behalf of His Majesty's Government a formal Agreement by which he will cede full jurisdiction to His Majesty in his State."

===== Page 113 =====
January 1946.

You will remember that Mr. Creech Jones mentioned to you over the telephone today the proposed White Paper on the Constitutional arrangements for Malaya.

He has discussed the draft with Lloyd and Gent and the Department this afternoon, and as a result, certain amendments have been made in it. I attach a revised draft incorporating these amendments.

Mr. Creech Jones was anxious to arrange a meeting of the Colonial Affairs Committee this Friday to tackle this Paper, but I am afraid that it is too late for this now as a Paper has to be circulated two clear days in advance of the date of the meeting. We are accordingly arranging for a meeting of the Committee next Monday. This will necessitate getting our Paper printed and circulated by next Friday. If, therefore, you could telephone your comments on the enclosed draft tomorrow afternoon or Thursday afternoon, that would give us time to get the Paper out for next Monday's meeting.

I understand that in the course of the discussion on the draft Paper Mr. Creech Jones asked that there should be included in the brief which is prepared for Ministers a note, with reference to paragraph 7 of the brief, clarifying and amplifying so far as possible the arrangements for local government and a further note with reference to the last sentence of paragraph 8 saying what our ideas are in regard

===== Page 114 =====
To the Civil lists for the rulers. Mr. Creech Jones also asked that your attention should be drawn to the last sentence of paragraph 10, which says that those acquiring Malay Union citizenship otherwise than by birth will be required to fulfill allegiance to the Malay Union. I understand that this has been inserted as the result of a suggestion made by the Sultan of Kelantan.

Y.S.

(S90) E. Melville

===== Page 115 =====
You will remember that Mr. Creech Jones mentioned to you over the telephone today the proposed White Paper on the Constitutional arrangements for Malaya.

He has discussed the draft with Lloyd, Gent, and the Department this afternoon and as a result certain amendments have been made in it. I attach a revised draft incorporating these amendments.

Mr. Creech Jones was anxious to arrange a meeting of the Colonial Affairs Committee this Friday to tackle this paper, but I am afraid that it is too late for this now as a paper has to be circulated two clear days in advance of the date of the meeting. We are accordingly arranging for a meeting of the Committee on next Monday. This will necessitate getting our paper printed and circulated by next Friday. If, therefore, you could telephone your comments on the enclosed draft tomorrow afternoon or Thursday afternoon, that would give us time to get the paper out for next Monday's meeting.

I understand that in the course of the discussion on the draft paper Mr. Creech Jones asked that there should be included in the brief which is prepared for Ministers a note, with reference to paragraph 7 of the brief, clarifying and amplifying so far as possible the arrangements for local government and a further note with reference to the last sentence of paragraph 8 saying what our ideas are in regard

===== Page 116 =====
To the Civil Lists for the rulers. Mr. Creech Jones also asked that your attention should be drawn to the last sentence of paragraph 10, which says that those acquiring Malay Union citizenship otherwise than by birth will be required to affirm allegiance to the Malay Union. I understand that this has been inserted as the result of a suggestion made by the Sultan of Kelantan.

===== Page 117 =====
Mr. Grant.

Sir J. Gater thinks that you should see Mr. Creech Jones' correspondence regarding the Uicorp station in the next draft.

M. Morgan: File with the off-white paper is with M. Ochrove.

August 19

===== Page 118 =====
(4) \(\sqrt{2}\). I should have recalled that the paragraph would need a little explanation of preparation because, at the level of a debate, there will be criticism directed to the maintenance of the old set-up. We must be clear about our quality of preparation, the special relation of the 苏格兰 and main people to us. It is necessary to make a careful clear mark on all found works prior to work in the city of the political or economic development of the political changes, a new form of administration. Florence and its impersonal.

(5) \(\sqrt{2}\). line 13. What does "important" begin by government?

(6) \(\sqrt{3}\). last sentence. I should have thought it necessary to say a little more about the mission. The 苏格兰 have also been steadily with agreements or now have backed out or more have acted in connection with their councils.

(7) \(\sqrt{5}\). last line. "They both agree" - support is clear to come and union is desirable and agreement is easy to get? Why not say

"There must be a concise plan desirable."

===== Page 119 =====
(e) §6. Each line in one, sometimes more than "adequate representation" seems necessary, and additional lines of an alternative word - "feasible" - are not quite right.

(f) §9. Common objections - how do these companies deal with the common service or required in the E. Africa proposals?
Note that higher education, research custom or an included.

(g) §10. §6. Subparagraph (2)
- 10 years seem too many?

(h) §13. For the State Paper we need add the other jurisdiction of the Governor General, surely, Mr. Borneo.

(i) The Paper refers to some of the difficulties along land acquisition, taxation, or mineral rights.

(j) The Paper includes all references to treatment of the soldiers or financial arrangements.

A. Breeders

===== Page 120 =====
Mr. Creech-Jones has recorded in his minute that the Straits Settlement Repeal Bill should be introduced into the House of Lords on the last day before the Christmas recess, and that if at all possible the White Paper on Malaya should be laid in dummy simultaneously. The objective is that on the second reading of the Bill Parliament may have the White Paper available with a clear exposition of the policy in the Malayan Union and Singapore.

It seems desirable that the White Paper should go to the Colonial Affairs Committee and then to the Cabinet for approval before presentation to Parliament. It would also be desirable that when published here it should be available for local release in Malaya and elsewhere overseas at the same time.

On this basis we are proposing that the White Paper (a draft of which has been sent forward to higher authority in the Colonial Office) should go before the Colonial Affairs Committee in the first week of January before the Secretary of State leaves and should be approved by the Cabinet in the next few days thereafter. It should be presented to Parliament on re-assembly (22nd January) and there would presumably be a debate in Parliament about the end of January.

To provide, however, for simultaneous release in Malaya and elsewhere overseas, it would be desirable to lay the White Paper in dummy, during the recess, as soon as the Cabinet has approved (say, about 12th January) and copies

===== Page 121 =====
Copies should then immediately be sent confidentially to Malaya and elsewhere overseas for public release on the appointed day.

The above would not, of course, be in accordance with the idea of simultaneous laying in dummy of both the Bill and the White Paper, but it would still ensure that Parliament had the White Paper available when the Bill was debated and it would also provide for the White Paper being approved by the Colonial Affairs Committee and the Cabinet as well as for simultaneous release overseas. It will also allow time for the conclusion of Sir Harold MacMichael's work with the Sultans and for this fact to be definitely stated in the White Paper.

(sgd.) G.E.J. GENT. 17.12.45.

===== Page 122 =====
Paragraph 5.

It is hardly correct to say that there "were" close ties between Singapore and "the Malayan Union", and I suggest substituting "the mainland" for the latter. In consequence it might be better to say "Singapore and the Malayan Union" instead of "the two Administrations".

Paragraph 6.

As it has not been "mentioned above" that the settlement of Singapore would include the Cocos Keeling Islands and Christmas Island, I suggest substituting for the first two lines, "mentioned above, the settlement of Singapore, in which will be included the Cocos Keeling Islands and Christmas Island will," etc.

Paragraph 9.

In the previous draft I amended the original marginal note because "Pan-Malayan Subjects" seems to refer to the question of nationality, particularly when it is followed by a marginal note "Malayan Union citizenship." If this marginal note is retained I think "subjects" should at least be spelt with a small s, but would not "Subjects of Pan-Malayan importance" be better?

Paragraph 10.

"And" in the penultimate line should be "or".

Paragraph 13.

I think there is some substance in objecting to the title "Governor-General." Personally, I can see no objection to "High Commissioner."

I have not mentioned the most important point, which is whether paragraph 3 should state that the agreements have all been signed, the issue of the White Paper being delayed of course until that is the case. I will not go fully into this, because I know Sir George Gater has the point under consideration. I will only say that it does appear to be little easy for those who like to accuse this country of "imperialistic aggression" if the White Paper contains any suggestion that the Rulers are going to be forced to sign agreements whether they like it or not.

===== Page 123 =====
MALAYA

Statement of Policy for the future constitution of the Malayan Union and the Colony of Singapore.

1. The territories concerned in this statement comprise, first, the Colony of the Straits Settlements (that is to say Singapore, Penang, and Malacca, in Malaya; Labuan off the north coast of Borneo; and Christmas Island and the Cocos-Keeling Islands to the south of Sumatra); secondly, the Federated Malay States of Perak, Selangor, Negri Sembilan, and Pahang, in the Malay Peninsula; and thirdly, the Unfederated Malay States of Johore, Kedah, Kelantan, Trengganu and Perlis, also in the Malay Peninsula. The Colony of the Straits Settlements was, before its occupation by the Japanese, under direct British administration. In the Malay States, on the other hand, British authority rested upon agreements concluded with the Rulers, under which each Ruler retained sovereignty in his State, though each was bound to accept British advice on all matters except Mohammedan religion and Malay custom. Administrative co-ordination was achieved by the Governor of the Straits Settlements in his capacity as High Commissioner for the Malay States. As Governor of the Straits Settlements he was in direct charge of the Colony's administration; on matters pertaining to the Federated Malay States, as High Commissioner, he exercised his functions through the British Resident in each of the four States and through the Federal Secretary at the Headquarters of the Federal Government (Kuala Lumpur); on the business of the Unfederated Malay States, again as High Commissioner, he exercised his functions through a British Adviser in each State. This co-ordination had, however, to be effected through a variety of legislatures and administrations.

/Legislation

===== Page 124 =====
Legislation in the Colony was enacted by the Legislative Council of the Straits Settlements, legislation in the Federated Malay States by the Federal Council and each State Council, and legislation in each Unfederated Malay State by the State Council of each State. Uniformity of legislation in the Malay States, therefore, required separate action by at least six, and in some cases by ten, legislatures.

2. This divided and separatist position in a small country not as large as England was formerly not inappropriate and in many ways indeed can be shown to have represented a necessary and useful stage in the development of the several States. But with the increasing complexity of modern administrative, economic and social developments it is unnecessarily cumbersome and wasteful of time and personnel. A stage has now been reached when the system of government should be simplified and reformed. A factor of particular importance is the need for a particular adjustment which will offer the means and prospect of developing Malaya's capacity in the direction of self-government. In this development all those who have made the country their homeland should have the opportunity of a due share in the country's political and cultural institutions.

3. The British Crown must provide the common link which will draw together the communities of Malaya and promote a sense of common interest and the development of common institutions. It is, therefore, necessary that the old situation, in which His Majesty had no jurisdiction in the Malay States, should be remedied, and that fresh Agreements with each Ruler should be concluded under which such jurisdiction will be ceded to His Majesty as will enable him to legislate for the States under the Foreign Jurisdiction.

===== Page 125 =====
Jurisdiction Act. Accordingly Sir Harold MacMichael, as Special Representative of His Majesty, has been engaged on a mission to conclude with each of the Malay Rulers new Agreements whereby full jurisdiction will be possessed by His Majesty.

4. It is proposed that the present combination of the Straits Settlements of Penang, Malacca, and Singapore in one political unit should be readjusted on the following lines:

(a) the Settlement of Singapore should be a separate Colony; and

(b) the Settlements of Penang and Malacca should be administered with the Malay States in a Malayan Union.

These proposals will be carried into effect, so far as the Malay States are concerned, under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890, and, as regards the Straits Settlements, under legislation now before Parliament (the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Bill).

5. In considering the need for a closer political integration in Malaya, His Majesty's Government consider that, at least for the time being, Singapore requires separate treatment. It is a centre of entrepot trade on a very large scale and has economic and social interests distinct from those of the mainland. It is recognised, however, that there were and will be close ties between Singapore and the Malayan Union, and it is no part of the policy of His Majesty's Government to preclude or prejudice in any way the fusion of the two administrations in a wider union at a later date should they both agree to such a course.

===== Page 126 =====
6. As mentioned above, the Settlement of Singapore, including the Cocos-Keeling Islands and Christmas Island, will be constituted as the Colony of Singapore under a Governor with an Executive and a Legislative Council. For the purposes of local government, it is intended that as broad and representative a basis as possible should be given to the restored Municipality of Singapore. During a transitional phase between the termination of the present military administration and the inauguration of the new constitution, the Governor will be empowered to legislate with the help of an Advisory Council. During this phase he will be instructed to give careful consideration to the questions of the composition of the Executive Council and of appointment and election to the Legislative Council and to the Municipal Commission, so as to ensure adequate representation of the various sections of the community.

7. The constitution of the Malayan Union will provide for a central authority consisting of a Governor with an Executive and a Legislative Council. In each State and Settlement there will be local Councils which will have legislative powers, delegated to them by the central authority, appropriate to the purposes of local government. These Councils, both central and local, will consist of official and unofficial members; but, while it is the intention that their constitution shall be broad-based and representative, the final determination of numbers and of the details of representation will not be decided until there has been consultation with local opinion. In the initial phase after the termination of the Military Administration and before the new constitution is brought into effect, the Governor will be empowered to enact necessary legislation with the help of an Advisory Council. In forming this interim Advisory the Governor will have close regard to the intended composition of the Legislative Council.

===== Page 127 =====
8. His Majesty's Government have borne in mind the special position of the Malay Rulers as traditional and spiritual leaders of the Malay people. It is intended, therefore, that the Ruler in each State shall preside over an Advisory Malay Council whose members he will appoint, subject to the approval of the Governor. The main functions of these Malay Advisory Councils will relate to matters affecting Mohammedan religion; but they will also advise the Ruler on other matters at the request of the Resident Commissioner acting with the Governor's approval. On matters of Mohammedan religion, excepting the collection of tithes and taxes, each Ruler, with the help of his Council, will have legislative powers within his State. Such legislation will require the Governor's assent, and for this purpose he will be assisted by a Central Advisory Council of the Malay Rulers sitting together under his Chairmanship. In addition to passing in review all legislation affecting Mohammedan religion, this central Advisory Council may discuss other subjects, either at the instance of the Governor or at the instance of any of the Rulers with the Governor's consent. By these arrangements it will be ensured that each of the Rulers can play his part not only in the affairs of his State but in the future development of Malaya as a whole.

9. There will be a special need to develop harmonious and mutually profitable relations between the Malayan Union and Singapore on matters of trade. Subjects of pan-Malayan importance, such as Posts and Telegraphs, Immigration, Currency, Civil Aviation, and Shipping, which require full identity of policy throughout Malaya, will be matters of common arrangement between the Union and the Colony. The currency will continue to be managed under pan-Malayan agreement.

10. The policy of His Majesty's Government is to promote a broad-based citizenship which will include,

===== Page 128 =====
Without discrimination of race or creed, all who can claim, by reason of birth or a suitable period of residence, to belong to the country. It is proposed, therefore, to create by Order in Council a Malayan Union Citizenship. The following persons will automatically acquire Malayan Union Citizenship:

(a) persons born in the territory of the Union or of the Colony of Singapore;

(b) persons who at the date on which the Order in Council becomes operative have been ordinarily resident in those territories for ten years out of the preceding fifteen. (In calculating the fifteen years' period, the period of Japanese occupation will be disregarded).

It will also be possible for persons to acquire Malayan Union citizenship after five years' ordinary residence in the Malayan Union or Singapore. British subjects who acquire Malayan Union citizenship will not thereby lose their British nationality. Save with the consent of the Governor, no person who is not a Malayan Union citizen will be admitted to public office and membership of Central and Local Councils.

11. There will be a Supreme Court of the Malayan Union and a Supreme Court of Singapore, each with a Chief Justice at its head. Each will consist of a Court of first instance and a Court of Appeal. The Chief Justices and the puisne Judges of the Supreme Court of the Union and of Singapore respectively will be ex officio judges in the other territory. There will be appeals to the Privy Council from both Courts of Appeal.

12. Arrangements will be made for the transfer, with certain exceptions, of the assets and liabilities of each of the Malay States and of the Settlements of Penang and Malacca to the Malayan Union. It will be necessary to arrange for an apportionment of the assets.

===== Page 129 =====
Assets and liabilities of the Government of the Straits Settlements between the Governments of Singapore and of the Malayan Union.

Governor-General. 13. The co-ordination and direction of the policies of Government in the Malayan Union and Singapore will be secured by the appointment of a Governor-General, who will reside in Singapore.

===== Page 130 =====
MALAYA

Statement of Policy for the future constitution of the Malayan Union and the Colony of Singapore.

Previous position.

1. The territories concerned in this statement comprise, first, the Colony of the Straits Settlements (that is to say Singapore, Penang, and Malacca, in Malaya; Labuan off the north coast of Borneo; and Christmas Island and the Cocos-Keeling Islands to the south of Sumatra); secondly, the Federated Malay States of Perak, Selangor, Negri Sembilan, and Pahang, in the Malay Peninsula; and thirdly, the Unfederated Malay States of Johore, Kedah, Kelantan, Trengganu and Perlis, also in the Malay Peninsula. The Colony of the Straits Settlements was, before its occupation by the Japanese, under direct British administration. In the Malay States, on the other hand, British authority rested upon agreements concluded with the Rulers, under which each Ruler retained sovereignty in his State, though each was bound to accept British advice on all matters except Mohammedan religion and Malay custom.

Administrative co-ordination was achieved by the Governor of the Straits Settlements in his capacity as High Commissioner for the Malay States. As Governor of the Straits Settlements he was in direct charge of the Colony's administration; on matters pertaining to the Federated Malay States, as High Commissioner, he exercised his functions through the British Resident in each of the four States and through the Federal Secretary at the Headquarters of the Federal Government (Kuala Lumpur); on the business of the Unfederated Malay States, again as High Commissioner, he exercised his functions

===== Page 131 =====
Functions through a British Adviser in each State. This coordination had, however, to be effected through a variety of legislatures and administrations. Legislation in the Colony was enacted by the Legislative Council of the Straits Settlements, legislation in the Federated Malay States by the Federal Council and each State Council, and legislation in each Unfederated Malay State by the State Council of each State. Uniformity of legislation in the Malay States, therefore, required separate action by at least six, and in some cases by ten, legislatures.

2. This divided and separatist position in a small country not as large as England was formerly not inappropriate and in many ways indeed can be shown to have represented a necessary and useful stage in the development of the several States. But with the increasing complexity of modern administrative, economic and social developments it is unnecessarily cumbersome and wasteful of time and personnel. Still more important is the need to delay no longer the political adjustment of the country which will offer the means and prospect of developing Malaya's capacity in the direction of self-government in which all those who have made the country their homeland may possess and exercise their share in the country's political and cultural institutions.

3. The British Crown must provide the common link which will draw together the separate communities of Malaya and promote a sense of common interest and the development of common institutions. It is, therefore, necessary that the old situation, in which His Majesty had no jurisdiction in the Malay States, should be remedied, and that fresh Agreements with each Ruler should be concluded under which such jurisdiction will be ceded to His Majesty as will enable him to legislate.

===== Page 132 =====
Legislate for the States under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act. Accordingly, Sir Harold MacMichael, as Special Representative of His Majesty, has been engaged on a mission to conclude with each of the Malay Rulers new Agreements whereby full jurisdiction will be possessed by His Majesty.

4. It is proposed that Singapore should be a separate Colony and that the Settlements of Penang and Malacca should be administered with all the Malay States of the Peninsula in a Malayan Union. This proposal could be carried into effect, so far as the Malay States are concerned, under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1890, but, as respects the Straits Settlements, there are certain legal obstacles which the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Bill, now before Parliament, is designed to remove.

5. In considering the need for a closer political integration in Malaya, His Majesty's Government consider that, for the time being at any rate, Singapore requires separate treatment as a centre of entrepot trade with economic and social interests distinct from those of the mainland. It is recognised, however, that there were and will be close ties between Singapore and the Peninsula territory, and it is no part of the policy of His Majesty's Government to preclude or prejudice in any way the fusion of the two administrations in a wider union at a later date should they both agree to such a course. The Island of Labuan, as a detached part of the Colony of the Straits Settlements lying off the western shore of North Borneo, again requires separate treatment. It is proposed to incorporate it with that territory.

6. As mentioned above, the Settlement of Singapore, including the Cocos-Keeling Islands and Christmas Island but excluding Labuan, will be constituted

===== Page 133 =====
Constituted as the Colony of Singapore under a Governor with an Executive and a Legislative Council. For the purposes of local government, it is intended that as broad and representative a basis as possible should be given to the restored Municipality of Singapore. During the initial phase, when the Governor is empowered to legislate with the help of an Advisory Council, he will give careful consideration to the questions of the composition of the Executive Council and of appointment and election to the Legislative Council and to the Municipal Commission, so as to ensure adequate representation of the various sections and interests in proportion to their importance and their contributions to the welfare and prosperity of Singapore.

7. The constitution of the Malayan Union will provide for a central authority consisting of a Governor with an Executive and a Legislative Council. In each State and Settlement, there will be local Councils which will have executive and legislative powers delegated to them by the central authority, appropriate to the purposes of local government. These Councils, both central and local, will consist of official and unofficial members; but, while it is the intention that their constitution shall be broad-based and representative, the final determination of numbers and of the details of representation will not be decided until there has been consultation with local opinion. In the initial phase after the termination of the Military Administration and before the new constitution is brought into effect, the Governor will be empowered to enact necessary legislation with the help of an Advisory Council. In forming this interim Advisory Council, the Governor will have close regard to the intended composition of the Legislative Council.

===== Page 134 =====
8. His Majesty's Government have borne in mind the special position of the Malay Rulers as traditional and spiritual leaders of the Malay people. It is intended, therefore, that the Ruler in each State shall preside over an Advisory Malay Council whose members he will appoint, subject to the approval of the Governor. The main functions of these Malay Advisory Councils will relate to matters affecting Mohammedan religion; but they will also advise the Ruler on other matters at the request of the Resident Commissioner acting with the Governor's approval. On matters of Mohammedan religion, excepting the collection of tithes and taxes, each Ruler, with the help of his Council, will have legislative powers within his State. Such legislation will require the Governor's assent, and for this purpose he will be assisted by a Central Advisory Council of the Malay Rulers sitting together under his Chairmanship. In addition to passing in review all legislation affecting Mohammedan religion, this Advisory Council will discuss other subjects, either at the instance of the Governor or at the instance of any of the Rulers with the Governor's consent. By these arrangements it will be ensured that each of the Rulers can play his part not only in the affairs of his State but in the future development of Malaya as a whole.

9. There will be a special need to develop harmonious and mutually profitable relations between the Malayan Union and Singapore on matters of trade. Subjects of pan-Malayan importance, such as Posts and Telegraphs, Immigration, Currency, Civil Aviation, and Shipping, which require identity of policy throughout Malaya, will be matters of common arrangement between the Union and the Colony.

10. The policy of His Majesty's Government is to promote a broad-based citizenship which will include, without

===== Page 135 =====
Without discrimination of race or creed, all who can claim, by reason of birth or a suitable period of residence, to belong to the country. It is proposed, therefore, to create by Order in Council a Malayan Union Citizenship. The following persons will automatically acquire Malayan Union Citizenship:

(a) persons born in the territory of the Union or of the Colony of Singapore;

(b) persons who at the date on which the Order in Council becomes operative have been ordinarily resident in those territories for ten years out of the preceding fifteen years. (In calculating the fifteen years' period, the period of Japanese occupation will be disregarded.)

It will also be possible for persons to acquire Malayan Union citizenship after five years' ordinary residence in the Malayan Union or Singapore. British subjects who acquire Malayan Union citizenship will not thereby lose their British nationality. Save with the consent of the Governor, no person who is not a Malayan Union citizen will be admitted to public office, and unofficial membership of Central and Local Councils and similar bodies will be confined to Malayan Union citizens.

11. There will be a High Court of the Malayan Union and a Supreme Court of Singapore, each with a Chief Justice at its head. Each will consist of a Court of first instance and a Court of Appeal. The Chief Justices and the puisne Judges of the High Court of the Union and of the Supreme Court of Singapore respectively will be ex officio judges in the other territory. There will be appeals to the Privy Council from both Courts of Appeal.

12. Arrangements will be made for the transfer, with certain exceptions, of the assets and liabilities

===== Page 136 =====
Of each of the Malay States and of the Settlements of Penang and Malacca to the Malayan Union. It will be necessary to arrange for an apportionment of the assets and liabilities of the Government of the Straits Settlements between the Governments of Singapore and of the Malayan Union.

Governor-General.

13. The co-ordination and direction of the policies of Government in the Malayan Union, Singapore, and other Far Eastern territories will be secured by the appointment of a Governor-General, who will reside in Singapore and will have general powers of co-ordination and direction.

===== Page 137 =====
MALAYA

Statement of Policy for the future constitution of the Malayan Union and the Colony of Singapore.

1. The territories concerned in this statement comprise, first, the Colony of the Straits Settlements (that is to say Singapore, Penang, and Malacca, in Malaya; Labuan off the north coast of Borneo; and Christmas Island and the Cocos-Keeling Islands to the south of Java); secondly, the Federated Malay States of Perak, Selangor, Negri Sembilan, and Pahang, in the Malay Peninsula; and thirdly, the Unfederated Malay States of Johore, Kedah, Kelantan, Trengganu, and Perlis, also in the Malay Peninsula. The Colony of the Straits Settlements was, before its occupation by the Japanese, under direct British administration. In the Malay States, on the other hand, British authority rested upon agreements concluded with the Rulers, under which each Ruler retained sovereignty in his State, though each was bound to accept British advice on all matters except Mohammedan religion and Malay custom. Administrative co-ordination was achieved by the Governor of the Straits Settlements in his capacity as High Commissioner for the Malay States. As Governor of the Straits Settlements he was in direct charge of the Colony's administration; on matters pertaining to the Federated Malay States, as High Commissioner, he exercised his functions through the British Resident in each of the four States and through the Federal Secretary at the Headquarters of the Federal Government (Kuala Lumpur); on the business of the Unfederated Malay States, again as High Commissioner, he exercised his functions through a British Adviser in each State. This co-ordination had, however,

===== Page 138 =====
However, to be effected through a variety of legislatures and administrations. Legislation in the Colony was enacted by the Legislative Council of the Straits Settlements, legislation in the Federated Malay States by the Federal Council and each State Council, and legislation in each Unfederated Malay State by the State Council of each State. Uniformity of legislation in the Malay States, therefore, required separate action by at least five, and in some cases by nine, legislatures.

2. This divided and separatist position in a small country not as large as England was formerly inappropriate and in many ways indeed can be shown to have represented a necessary and useful stage in the development of the several States. But with the increasing complexity of modern administrative, economic and social developments, it is unnecessarily cumbersome and wasteful of time and personnel. Still more important is the need to delay no longer the political adjustment of the country which will offer the means and prospect of developing Malaya's capacity in the direction of self-government in which all those who have made the country their homeland may possess and exercise their share in the country's political and cultural institutions.

3. In considering the need for a closer political integration in Malaya, His Majesty's Government consider that, for the time being at any rate, Singapore requires separate treatment as a centre of entrepot trade with economic and social interests distinct from those of the mainland. It is recognised, however, that there were and will be close ties between Singapore and the Peninsula territory, and it is no part of the policy of His Majesty's Government to preclude or prejudice in any way the fusion of the two administrations in a wider union at a later date should they both agree to such a course. The Island

===== Page 139 =====
Island of Labuan, as a detached part of the Colony of the Straits Settlements lying off the Western shore of North Borneo, again requires separate treatment. It is proposed to incorporate it with that territory.

4. The British Crown must provide the common link which will draw together the separate communities of the Peninsula and promote a sense of common interest and the development of common institutions. It is, therefore, necessary that the old situation, in which His Majesty had no jurisdiction in the Malay States, should be remedied, and that fresh Agreements with each Ruler should be concluded under which such jurisdiction will be ceded to His Majesty as will enable him to legislate for the States under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act. Accordingly Sir Harold MacMichael, as Special Representative of His Majesty, is engaged on a mission to conclude with each of the Malay Rulers new Agreements whereby full jurisdiction will be possessed by His Majesty.

5. It is proposed that Singapore should be a separate Colony and that the Settlements of Penang and Malacca should be administered with the Malay States in a Malayan Union. It will be necessary to repeal the Straits Settlements Act, 1866 and to substitute for it an Act applying the British Settlements Acts, 1887 and 1945. The Colony of Singapore will then be constituted under the British Settlements Acts, and the Malayan Union under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1887 and the British Settlements Acts.

6. The constitution of the Malayan Union will provide for a central authority consisting of a Governor with an Executive and a Legislative Council. In each State and Settlement there will be local Councils which will have executive and legislative powers, delegated to them by the central authority, appropriate to the purposes of local government. These Councils, both central and local

===== Page 140 =====
Local, will consist of official and unofficial members; but, while it is the intention that their constitution shall be broad-based and representative, the final determination of numbers and of the details of representation will not be decided until there has been consultation with local opinion. In the initial phase after the termination of the Military Administration and before the new constitution is brought into effect, the Governor will be empowered to enact necessary legislation with the help of an Advisory Council. In forming this interim Advisory Council the Governor will have close regard to the intended composition of the Legislative Council. Provision will be made for the continuing validity of the existing laws of each particular State and Settlement until altered or repealed, and for the continuance of proceedings pending in the Courts.

7. The policy of His Majesty's Government is to promote a broad-based citizenship which will include, without discrimination of race or creed, all who can claim, by reason of birth or a suitable period of residence, to belong to the country. It is proposed, therefore, to create by Order in Council a Malayan Union Citizenship. The following persons will automatically acquire Malayan Union Citizenship:

(a) persons born in the territory of the Union or of the Colony of Singapore;

(b) persons who at the date on which the Order in Council becomes operative have ordinarily been resident in those territories for ten years out of the preceding fifteen. (In calculating the fifteen years' period, the period of Japanese occupation will be disregarded).

It will also be possible for persons to acquire Malayan Union citizenship after five years' ordinary residence in the Malayan Union or Singapore. This will in no way affect the rights, as British citizens, of persons born in the Settlements of Penang and Malacca. Save with the consent of the Governor, no person who is not a Malayan Union

===== Page 141 =====
Union citizens will be admitted to public office, and unofficial membership of local Councils and similar bodies will be confined to Malayan Union citizens.

8. His Majesty's Government have borne in mind the special position of the Malay Rulers as traditional and spiritual leaders of the Malay people. It is intended, therefore, that the Ruler in each State shall preside over an Advisory Malay Council whose members he will appoint, subject to the agreement of the Governor. The main functions of these Malay Advisory Councils will relate to matters affecting the Mohammedan religion; but they will also advise the Ruler on other matters at the request of the Resident Commissioner acting with the Governor's approval. On matters of Mohammedan religion, excepting the collection of tithes and taxes, each Ruler, with the help of his Council, will have legislative powers within his State. Such legislation will require the Governor's assent, and for this purpose he will be assisted by a Central Advisory Council of the Malay Rulers sitting together under his Chairmanship. In addition to passing in review all legislation affecting Mohammedan religion, this Advisory Council will discuss other subjects, either at the instance of the Governor or at the instance of any of the Rulers with the Governor's consent. By these arrangements it will be ensured that each of the Rulers can play his part not only in the affairs of his State but in the future development of Malaya as a whole.

9. There will be a High Court of the Malayan Union with a Chief Justice at its head. This will consist of a Court of first instance and a Court of Appeal. Each Chief Justice and puisne Judges of the High Court of the Union and of the Supreme Court of Singapore respectively will be ex officio judges in the other territory. The new constitutions will provide for appeals to the Privy Council from both Courts of Appeal.

===== Page 142 =====
10. Arrangements will be made for the transfer, with certain exceptions, of the assets and liabilities of each of the Malay States and of the Settlements of Penang and Malacca to the Malayan Union. It will be necessary to arrange for an apportionment of the assets and liabilities of the Government of the Straits Settlements between the Governments of Singapore and of the Malayan Union.

11. As mentioned above, the Settlement of Singapore, including the Cocos-Keeling Islands and Christmas Island but excluding Labuan, will be constituted as the Colony of Singapore under a Governor with an Executive and a Legislative Council. For the purposes of local government, it is proposed to extend the jurisdiction of the Municipal Commissioners of the Town of Singapore to cover the whole island.

12. During the initial phase when the Governor is empowered to legislate with the help of an Advisory Council, he will give careful consideration to the question of the method of appointment to the Executive Council and of appointment and election to the Legislative Council and to the Municipal Commission, so as to ensure adequate representation of the various sections and interests in proportion to their importance and their contributions to the welfare and prosperity of Singapore.

13. There will be a special need to develop harmonious and mutually profitable relations between the Malayan Union and Singapore in matters of trade. Subjects of pan-Malayan importance, such as Posts and Telegraphs, Immigration, Currency, Civil Aviation, and Shipping, which require identity of policy throughout Malaya, will be regulated by particular agreements between the Union and the Colony.

14. The co-ordination and direction of the policies of Government in the Malayan Union, Singapore, and other [POSSIBLY MISSING]

===== Page 143 =====
Far Eastern territories will be secured by the appointment of a Governor-General, who will reside in Singapore and will have general powers of supervision and control.

===== Page 144 =====
MALAYA

Statement of Policy for the future constitution of the Malayan Union and the Colony of Singapore.

1. The territories concerned in this statement comprise the Colony of the Straits Settlements (Singapore, Penang, and Malacca in Malaya; Labuan off the north coast of Borneo; Christmas Island and the Cocos-Keeling Islands to the South of Java); the Federated Malay States of Perak, Selangor, Negri Sembilan, and Pahang in the Malay Peninsula; and the Unfederated Malay States of Johore, Kedah, Kelantan, Trengganu and Perlis, also in the Peninsula. The British position in the Malay States rests entirely upon agreements concluded with each Ruler, under which each retains sovereignty in his State, though each is bound to accept British advice on all matters except Mohammedan religion and Malay custom.

Administrative co-ordination is achieved by the Governor of the Straits Settlements acting also as High Commissioner for the Malay States. As Governor of the Straits Settlements he is in direct charge of the Colony's administration; on matters pertaining to the Federated Malay States, as High Commissioner, he controls the Federal Government through the Federal Secretary at Kuala Lumpur and the State Governments through the four British Residents. On the business of the Unfederated Malay States, again as High Commissioner, he controls the State Government through a British Adviser in each State. This co-ordination has to be effected, however, through a variety of legislatures. Legislation for the Colony is enacted by the Legislative Council of the Straits Settlements, legislation for the Federated Malay States by the Federal Council, and legislation for each Unfederated Malay State by the Ruler in State.

===== Page 145 =====
2. This separatist divided a separatist position in a small country not as large as England was formerly and in many inland regions trays could be shown to turn apparent a necessary and useful stage in the development of the several States. But with the increasing complexity of modern administrative, economic and social developments, it is increasingly cumbersome and wasteful of time spent. Still more important is the need to delay no longer.

===== Page 146 =====
Political
The adjustment of the country which will offer the means and prospect of developing Malaysia; capacity in the direction of self-government in which all those who have made the country their homeland may possess and exercise their share in the country's political and cultural institutions.

===== Page 147 =====
State Council of each State. In addition, each of the four States of the Federation has its own legislative body, namely the Ruler in State Council, for certain subjects designated as State matters. United action therefore requires separate action by the Governments, a process which takes account the opportunity presented for local disagreement and different developments, does not make for speedy administration.

2. Efficiency and democratic progress alike demand a change in the existing constitutional and administrative system of Malaya. The former requires closer union between the Malay States, and the latter requires that advance towards self-government within the British Commonwealth shall be a development towards participation in Government by all the settled communities in Malaya, subject to a special recognition of the interests of the Malay race.

3. In considering the need for a closer integration of the Governments of Malaya, His Majesty's Government have concluded that, for the time being at any rate, Singapore requires separate treatment as a centre of entrepot trade with economic and social interests distinct from those of the mainland. It is recognised, however, that there were and will be close ties between the Island and the Peninsular, and it is no part of the policy of His Majesty's Government to preclude prejudice in any way the fusion of the two administrations in a wider union at a later date should they both agree to such a course. The Island of Labuan, as a detached part of the Colony of the Straits Settlements lying off the Western shore of the State of North Borneo, again requires separate treatment to incorporate it in due course with that State.

===== Page 148 =====
4. The British Crown is the principal factor to provide the common link of loyalty which will draw together the separate communities of the Peninsula and promote a sense of common interest and the development of common institutions. It is, therefore, necessary that the old situation, in which His Majesty had no jurisdiction in the Malay States, should be remedied, and that fresh Treaties with each Ruler should be concluded under which such jurisdiction will be ceded to His Majesty as will enable him to legislate for the States under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act. Accordingly Sir Harold MacMichael, as Special Representative of His Majesty, is engaged on a mission to conclude with each of the Malay Rulers new Agreements whereby full jurisdiction will be ceded to His Majesty.

5. As the Straits Settlements of Penang and Malacca will be concerned in the closer integration of the Peninsula, it will be necessary to repeal the Straits Settlements Act, of 1866 and to apply the British Settlements Act, of 1887 and 1945. The Colony of Singapore will then be constituted under the British Settlements Act, of 1887 and 1945.

6. Under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act and the British Settlements Act, the Malayan Union will be constituted by an Order of His Majesty in Council and will comprise all the Malay States of the Peninsula together with the Settlements of Penang and Malacca.

Constitutional arrangements.

7. The constitution of the Malayan Union will provide for a central authority consisting of a Governor with an Executive and a Legislative Council. In each member State and Settlement there will be local authorities with executive and legislative powers, appropriate to local government purposes delegated to them by the central authority. All these Councils, both central and local, will combine official and unofficial membership, but while it is the intention

===== Page 149 =====
Intention that their character shall be broad-based and representative, the final fixation of numbers and of the details of representation are not matters for decision until there has been consultation with local opinion, in the initial phase between the change-over from Military Administration to Civil Government and the convening of the Legislative Council. In this interim period, when legislation to provide for the change-over to the Civil Government will be urgently necessary, the Governor will be empowered to legislate with the help of an Advisory Council, in selecting the members of which the Governor will guide himself by the intended composition of the Legislative Council. At the same time provision will be made for the continuing validity of the existing laws of each particular State and Settlement until altered or repealed, and for the continuance of proceedings pending in the Courts.

8. His Majesty's Government's policy is to promote a broad-based citizenship which will include all without discrimination of race or creed who can claim by reason of birth or a suitable period of residence to belong to the country. It is proposed therefore to create by Order in Council a Malayan Union Citizenship. The following persons will automatically acquire Malayan Union Citizenship:

(a) persons born in the territory of the Union or of the Colony of Singapore;

(b) persons who at the date on which the Order in Council becomes operative have ordinarily been resident in those territories for ten years out of the preceding fifteen. (In calculating the fifteen years period, the period of Japanese occupation will be disregarded).

It will also be possible for persons to acquire Malayan Union citizenship after five years ordinary residence in the Malayan Union or Singapore. This will in no wise affect

===== Page 150 =====
The rights, as British citizens, of the peoples of the Settlements of Penang and Malacca. Save with the consent of the Governor, no person who is not a Malayan Union citizen will be admitted to public office, and the appointment of unofficial persons to be members of local Councils and similar bodies will be confined to Malayan Union citizens.

9. His Majesty's Government have borne in mind the special position of the Malay Rulers as traditional and spiritual leaders of the Malay people. It is intended, therefore, that the Ruler in each State will be provided with an Advisory Malay Council, over which he will preside and whose members he will appoint, subject to the agreement of the Governor. The main functions of these Malay Advisory Councils will relate to matters affecting Mohammedan religion; but they will also advise the Ruler on other matters at the request of the Resident Commissioner acting with the Governor's approval. On matters of Mohammedan religion, excepting the collection of tithes and taxes, each Ruler, with the help of his Council, will have legislative powers within his State. Such legislation will require the Governor's assent, and for this purpose he will be assisted by an Advisory Council of the Malay Rulers sitting together with him under his Chairmanship as one body. In addition to this function of passing in review all legislation affecting Mohammedan, this Advisory Council will discuss other subjects, either at the instance of the Governor or at the instance of any of the Rulers with the Governor's consent. By these arrangements it will be ensured that each of the Rulers can play his part not only in the affairs of his State but in the future development of Malaya as a whole.

10. There will be a High Court of the Malayan Union with a Chief Justice at its head, consisting of a Court of first

===== Page 151 =====
First instance and a Court of Appeal. The Chief Justices and the puisne Judges of the High and Supreme Courts of the Union and Singapore respectively will be declared ex officio judges in the other territory. The new constitution will provide for appeals to the Privy Council from the Court of Appeal of the Malayan Union.

11. In order that the Malayan Union may become a reality and be endowed in keeping with its constitutional authority and political responsibilities, arrangements will be made for the transferring, with certain exceptions, of the assets and liabilities of the Malay States and the Settlements of Penang and Malacca to the Union. As these two Settlements will be transferred from the jurisdiction of the Government of the Straits Settlements to that of the Union, it will be necessary to arrange for a division of their assets and liabilities between the Governments of Singapore and the Malayan Union.

12. The Settlement of Singapore, including the Cocos-Keeling Islands and Christmas Island but excluding Labuan, will be constituted as the Colony of Singapore under a separate Government of a Governor with an Executive and a Legislative Council. For the purposes of local government, it is proposed to extend the jurisdiction of the Municipal Commission, which as an unofficial body previously acted for the town area only, to cover the whole Island.

13. For an initial phase between the change-over from Military Administration to Civil Government and the convening of the Legislative Council, the Governor will be empowered to legislate with the help of an Advisory Council, and he will at the same time review in the light of public opinion the character not only of the Executive and Legislative Councils but also of the Municipal Commission.

===== Page 152 =====
Ensure adequate representation of the various sections and interests in relation to their importance and their contribution to the welfare and prosperity of Singapore.

14. There will be a special need to develop harmonious and mutually beneficial relations between the Malayan Union and Singapore on matters of trade, and subjects of pan-Malayan importance, such as Posts and Telegraphs, Immigration, Currency, Civil Aviation, and Shipping. These subjects, which require identity of policy throughout Malaya, will be regulated by particular agreements between the Union and the Colony.

15. The co-ordination and direction of the policies of Government in the Malayan Union and Singapore will be secured by the appointment of a Governor-General, who will reside in Singapore and will have power of control, not only over the Governors of the Union and Singapore but also over British Representatives in Borneo.

===== Page 153 =====
MALAYA

Statement of Policy for the Future Constitution of the Malayan Union and the Colony of Singapore.

1. Efficiency and democratic progress alike demand a change in the pre-war constitutional and administrative system of Malaya. The former requires closer union between the Malay States, and the latter requires that advance towards self-government within the British Commonwealth shall be a development towards participation in Government by the people of all the settled communities in Malaya, subject to special recognition of the interests of the Malay race.

2. Malaya, though a geographical unity, is not in fact a single country and forms neither a racial nor a constitutional entity. Appreciation of this is essential to any understanding of the problems facing the future administration. As organised under British control, Malaya consists of a British Colony, the Straits Settlements, the most important of which are Singapore, Penang, and Malacca, and of nine Malay States, four of which are joined in a Federation. The British position in the Malay States rests entirely upon agreements concluded with the several Rulers, under which they remain in a strictly legal sense sovereign and independent, though they are bound in fact to accept British advice on all matters except Malay religion and custom.

3. Until the seventies of the last century it was the policy to restrict British control to the three Settlements comprising the Colony and to discourage penetration into the Malay States, which were at that time essentially riverine communities, each under their own Ruler and considerably

===== Page 154 =====
Considerably isolated by mountain and jungle. During anarchy caused by pirate bands and by the impact on Malay society of traders and Chinese miners from the outside world, led in 1874 to requests from the Rulers of the four States, which were later included in the Federation, for assistance from the British Government in the administration of their territories. This assistance was embodied in Treaties providing for the appointment in each State of a British officer whose advice was to be acted upon in all questions other than those concerning Malay religion and custom. Similar Treaties were concluded at a later date with the other five Malay States, which remained outside the Federation and which were known as the Unfederated Malay States. In the Federated Malay States the officers appointed were styled British Residents, in the others British Advisers.

4. From the legal point of view these Treaties involved no derogation from the position of the Rulers as sovereign princes, nor did they confer any jurisdiction on His Majesty in the Malay States; and they led to important differences between the Straits Settlements, which is British territory, and the Malay States, which are under British protection. All persons born, for instance, in the Crown Colony are natural-born British subjects; those born in a Malay State are British protected persons but they are not British subjects. In the Colony every Ordinance requires the assent of the Governor, His Majesty's representative; in the Malay States new laws require the assent of the Ruler. In the Councils of the Colony the Governor presides; in every State Council the Ruler is President. In the Colony

===== Page 155 =====
Land is held from the Crown; in a Malay State from the Ruler.

5. From the historical point of view, the introduction of British Residents in the 1870's was followed by a rapid development, mainly by immigrant capital and labour, of the resources of the States concerned, which broke down their previous physical isolation. This led to proposals for administrative machinery for closer union and in 1895 the States of Perak, Selangor, Negri Sembilan, and Pahang agreed to the formation of a Federation. Paradoxically, the existence of the Federation proved in fact to be an obstacle to further unification. The rapidity of the country's material development outstripped the advance in education and administrative capacity of the Malays themselves. The British Residents found themselves compelled to take over more or less direct control of the administrative system in the Federated States, and there emerged a highly centralized bureaucracy based on the Federal capital, Kuala Lumpur. In consequence, the Rulers of the States outside the Federation, shy of the loss of power which they felt they would suffer in the administration of their States by joining the Federation and influenced by the fact that, in the main, the penetration of Malay communities by immigrant races had proceeded further in the Federated and in the Unfederated Malay States, have not hitherto welcomed moves towards the administrative unification of the Peninsula. A further obstacle lay in the divergence of economic interest between Singapore, which, as a great entrepot, was essentially mercantile in character, and the mainland, which was mainly a producer for exports and which

===== Page 156 =====
Which fear that in any closer union its interests would be sacrificed to those of Singapore.

6. Some attempt was made between the two wars to meet dissatisfaction in the States concerned with the centralization of legislative and administrative authority in the Federal machinery by the policy of gradually transferring many governmental functions from the Federal to the State Governments. It is important to realise, however, that this policy was regarded as an essential preliminary to the achievement of a longer-term policy, mainly the promotion of closer co-operation between the constituent parts of Malaya as a whole, by removing the deterrent which the existing Federation constituted against closer association of the Unfederated Malay States.

7. Administrative co-ordination was achieved by the Governor of the Straits Settlements acting also as High Commissioner for the Malay States. As Governor of the Straits Settlements he was in direct charge of the Colony's administration; on matters pertaining to the Federated Malay States, as High Commissioner, he controlled the Federal Government through the Federal Secretary at Kuala Lumpur and the States Government through the four British Residents; on the business of the Unfederated Malay States, again, as High Commissioner he controlled the State Government through the British Advisers in each State. This co-ordination had to be effected, however, through a variety of legislatures. Legislation for the Colony was enacted by the Legislative Council of the Straits Settlements, legislation

===== Page 157 =====
Legislation for the Federated Malay States was by the Federal Council, and legislation for each Unfederated Malay State was by the Ruler in State Council of each such State. In addition, each of the four States of the Federation had its own legislative body, namely the Ruler in State Council, for certain subjects designated as State matters. United action in the past, therefore, required separate action by ten Governments, a process which, taking into account the opportunity presented for local disagreement and different developments, did not make for speedy administration.

8. Experience has shown, therefore, that the interests of efficient Government demand speedier measures to integrate closely both the legislative and the administrative arrangements of the Malay Peninsula.

9. On a longer view, too, the pre-war system does not seem capable of adjustments to the Colonial policy of permitting self-government on broad-based institutions in which the whole community can participate. Although the spread of British influence brought co-ordination in many places and successfully harmonized the interest of Malaya's racial communities, the separate entity of these States has remained nonetheless a reality. The Malays cherish a definite loyalty towards their Rulers, and this feeling conflicts with the development of any allegiance, as "Malayan," with the common duties and problems, towards a larger unit than the States. Furthermore, the extraordinary economic development which has accompanied

===== Page 158 =====
Accompanied by the spread of British influence, and the extensive introduction of capital and enterprise from China and India, a situation has arisen in which the non-Malay population in Malaya now outnumbers the Malay, though many of the former still regard their original land rather than Malaya as their real home. This resultant problem presents special obstacles to the development of a sense of common citizenship in Malaya. On the one hand, the relations of the British Government with the Malay States are based on a recognition of the rights of the Malay people to a secure position in their land and in their educational and other facilities for progress. On the other hand, the enterprise and capacity of the non-Malay peoples of the country, provided they are accompanied by a sense of civic responsibility and political loyalty, assert a claim to exercise a due share in the moulding of Malaya's future on a basis of common citizenship with the Malay subjects of the Rulers, with all the rights and obligations pertaining thereto. It is His Majesty's Government's policy, therefore, to promote a broad-based citizenship in Malaya in which all may participate without discrimination of race or creed, subject to qualifications of birth or a suitable period of residence in Malaya.

10. Within Malaya, there is no foreseeable future of a union of the existing Malay States under a native Ruler; nor would the emergence of a united Malay monarchy be acceptable to the other non-Malay communities with substantial influence in the country. The British Crown alone provides the common link of loyalty which will draw the separate communities together.

===== Page 159 =====
Together and promoted a sense of common interest and the development of common institutions. It is therefore necessary that the old situation in which His Majesty had no jurisdiction in the Malay States should be remedied, and that fresh Treaties with each Ruler should be concluded under which such jurisdiction will be ceded to His Majesty as will enable him to legislate for the States under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act. Thereafter it will be possible to proceed to create a new constitution for the Malay States by Order-in-Council under statutory powers.

11. Accordingly, Sir Harold MacMichael, as Special Representative of His Majesty in Malaya, is engaged on a mission to conclude with each of the Malay Rulers new Agreements whereby full jurisdiction in their States will be ceded to His Majesty. At the same time fresh legislation in the United Kingdom Parliament is required by the repeal of the Straits Settlements Act of 1806, and by the amendment of the British Settlements Act of 1807, to enable the constitution of the Straits Settlements to be changed in accordance with His Majesty's Government's policy for a closer integration of Malaysia.

12. Under the statutory powers conferred by the Agreement and by legislation in Parliament affecting the Straits Settlements, it is proposed to constitute by Order-in-Council the Malayan Union, which will comprise all the Malay States in the Peninsula together with the Settlements of Penang and Malacca. The constitution of the Union will provide for a central and single authority consisting of a Governor with an Executive and a Legislative Council, from which all other authorities

===== Page 160 =====
Authorities in the Member States and Settlements shall derive their powers. The seat of Government of this Malayan Union will be conveniently at or near Kuala Lumpur, the capital of the present limited Federation. (At the same time by Order-in-Council it is proposed to constitute the Colony of Singapore under a separate Government consisting of a Governor with an Executive and Legislative Council.)

13. It is recognised that these measures will require the sacrifice by the State Rulers of some part of the authority and jurisdiction they have hitherto exercised. But there is no intention that the Rulers shall lose their personal positions as the natural leaders of the Malay people within their State territory, particularly in matters of Mohammedan religion. Indeed, the opportunity of the association of their territories in the Union should be taken to enable the Rulers to play their part in a wider sphere and that on Malay and Mohammedan matters the Governor should have the advice of the Rulers as a body. Their position in the constitution will be defined in and derived from the Order-in-Council constituting the Union, and this will provide for the establishment of an Advisory Council of the Malay Rulers, which shall be a deliberative, consultative and advisory, but not an executive, body, with the Governor, or in his absence the Officer Administering the Government, as its President. This Council, which will have a Malay title, will be a permanent body, will meet regularly, and its meetings will be conducted with all the ceremony.

===== Page 161 =====
Ceremony necessary in keeping with the personal dignity of the Rulers. The rules of business for the Council will be framed by the Governor after consultation with the Rulers, and complete records of the meetings will be kept in the Malay and English languages. The meetings will not be held in public, but communiques to the Press may be issued after each meeting.

The main functions of the Council will be:

(a) to advise the Governor on all matters affecting Mohammedan religion. In this connection, the Governor will consult his Advisory Council regarding legislation about Mohammedan religion which has been agreed by a Ruler acting with his own State Advisory Malay Council and which requires the Governor's assent, though the Governor will not be bound to accept its advice. Before any matter affecting Mohammedan religion is discussed or dealt with by the Union legislature, the Governor will be bound to have such matters discussed in the Advisory Council in the first instance.

(b) to advise the Governor on any other matter which the Governor decides should be discussed, either at his own instance or at the instance of any of the Rulers with the Governor's consent.

As the relationship between His Majesty's Government and each Ruler will be bound by Treaty, the following matters will be debarred from discussion in the Council:

(a) Treaties, rights, dignities and privileges of each Ruler and the members of his family, and the actions of each individual Ruler.

(b) The internal affairs of any individual State or Settlement which are properly within the purview of a State or Settlement Council.

The establishment of this Council will not prejudice in any way existing Treaty relations between His Majesty's Government and each Ruler, nor will the right of direct correspondence and access between any Ruler and the Governor be in any way impaired.

===== Page 162 =====
14. In each Malay State, side by side with the State Council (see below paragraph 22), there will be established Advisory Malay Councils to the Rulers, which will be presided over by the Ruler and whose members, subject to the approval of the Governor, will be appointed by the Ruler. The main functions of these Advisory Malay Councils will relate to matters affecting Mohammedan religion but they will also advise the Ruler on other matters at the request of the Resident Commissioner, acting with the Governor's approval. On such matters (with the exception of anything connected with the collection of taxes or tithes, which must be strictly left within the control of the central legislature or the State Council), it is proposed that the Ruler in Malay Advisory Councils shall have powers of legislation. Such legislation will require the Governor's assent and he will in no case grant or refuse his assent without consulting his own Advisory Council of Malay Rulers, though he will not be bound to accept its advice.

15. The residences and estates of the Rulers themselves and any buildings and lands which are used for the purposes of Mohammedan religion, as well as property pertaining to the endowment of Mohammedan religious institutions will be excluded from the transfer of State and Settlement properties to Union ownership. While the emoluments of the Rulers cannot be exempt from transfer to Union control, since the States will have only those revenues which they may receive for collection by the decision of the central legislature of the Union, it is nevertheless the intention to ensure that the Rulers' personal allowances shall be continued from year to year.

===== Page 163 =====
On a scale appropriate to their dignity and position.

16. With the intention of effectively broadening the basis of citizenship in the Union to include not only Malays but others who can claim to belong to the country, it is proposed to create by Order-in-Council a Malayan Union Citizenship. The following persons will automatically acquire Malayan Union Citizenship:

(a) persons born in the Union or in the Island of Singapore;

(b) persons who at the date on which the Order-in-Council becomes operative have ordinarily been resident in the Union or the Island of Singapore for ten years out of the preceding fifteen. (In calculating the fifteen years period, the period of Japanese occupation will be disregarded).

It will also be possible for persons to acquire Malayan Union Citizenship on application after five years ordinary residence in the Malayan Union or in Singapore. Such applicants will be required to take an oath of allegiance to the Government of the Malayan Union. Save with the consent of the Governor, no person who is not a Malayan Union citizen shall be admitted to the Public Service, and the appointment of unofficial persons to be members of local Councils and similar bodies shall be confirmed Malayan Union citizens.

17. Apart from the Governor, the three Principal officers of the Union Government will, in the usual practice of a Colonial Government, be the Chief Secretary, the Attorney-General and the Financial Secretary. The previous position of the British Residents and Advisers requires modification. Before the war, the status of these officers was higher than that of any other official save the High Commissioner, but with the establishment of

===== Page 164 =====
The Union Government: their importance will diminish and they will be subordinate to the Chief Secretary of the Union Government. These officers, as well as the officers at the head of the two Settlements of Penang and Malacca, shall be uniformly styled "Resident Commissioners".

18. The Order-in-Council constituting the Union will also provide for Executive and Legislative Councils.

19. The Executive Council will be composed of the Governor and two official and two unofficial members. Of the official members, the Chief Secretary, the Attorney-General, and the Financial Secretary will be ex-officio, while the other two will be nominated by the Governor. The unofficial members will also be nominated by the Governor. A racial basis will not be prescribed for such nominations, but in the first instance it is desirable that there shall be one European, one Malay, one Chinese, and one Indian unofficial member, the Governor being left to nominate the most suitable unofficial to fill the remaining vacancy regardless of race. Save with the consent of the Governor, unofficial membership of the Executive Council will be confined to Malayan Union citizens.

20. The Legislative Council will consist of the Governor as President, and twenty-one official and twenty-one unofficial members. Five of the official members will be the official members of the Executive Council and the remainder will be nominated by the Governor.

As regards the choice of the unofficial members, there has hitherto been no experience of any system of elections in Malaya, and for an initial phase at any rate the unofficial members will be nominated by the Governor. Fourteen of these will represent areas on a population basis.

===== Page 165 =====
basis, and, having regard to the estimated population in 1941, these areas will be:

1. Kedah and Perlis
2. Penang and Province Wellesley
3. Perak
4. Selangor and Pahang
5. Negri Sembilan and Malacca
6. Johore
7. Kelantan and Trengganu.

In view of the preponderance of their communities in these areas, it is clear that in practice unofficial members nominated on this basis will be either Malays or Chinese. The remaining seven unofficial members will therefore be nominated to represent important interests throughout the Union, thereby affording a method to secure adequate representation for European, Indian and Eurasian interests.

21. When the Military Administration ceases and the new Civil Government is established in the Peninsula, it will not be practicable to convene the Legislative Council immediately. At the same time legislation to provide for the change-over to Civil Government will be urgently necessary. To cover the intervening period between the end of the Military Administration and the convening of the Legislative Council, the new constitution will specifically empower the Governor also to legislate with the help of an Advisory Council. The Governor will consult this Advisory Council before enacting legislation, but will not be bound to accept the Council's advice. In selecting the members of this Council the Governor will guide himself as far as possible by the intended composition of the Legislative Council. At the same time provision will be made for the continuing validity of the existing laws of each particular State and Settlement, until altered.

===== Page 166 =====
Altered or repealed by the new legislature and for the continuance of proceedings pending in the Courts.

22. The various Malay States and the Settlements of Penang and Melacca comprising the Malayan Union will retain their geographical identities and as such will become the basis for the organisation of local government by the establishment of State and Settlement Councils, deriving their powers from the central legislature of the Union. They will be presided over by the Resident Commissioners and they will be empowered to legislate on all matters which, in the opinion of the Governor in Council, are of a merely local or private nature in the State or Settlement; and

(b) on all subjects in respect of which power is delegated to them by law by the Legislative Council of the Malayan Union.

25. There will be a High Court of the Malayan Union with a Chief Justice at its head, and judges of the High Court will be stationed at various suitable centres throughout the Peninsula. In accordance with previous practice and the needs of economy, the Chief Justice and the Puisne Judges of the Supreme Court in Singapore will be declared ex officio judges in the High Court of the Malayan Union and vice versa as regards the Chief Justice and Puisne Judges of the High Court of the Malayan Union. In practice the Court of Appeal, whether sitting in the Union or in Singapore, will invariably be composed of the two Chief Justices and one Puisne Judge. The new constitution will provide for appeals to the Privy Council from the Court of Appeal of the Malayan Union.

26. In order that the Malayan Union becomes a reality and be endowed in keeping with its constitutional authority and political responsibilities, all the properties, subject

===== Page 167 =====
Subject to certain exceptions as noted below, the member States and Settlements will be transferred to the Union Government, which will also assume full liability for State and Settlement debts. The Union will take over all revenues from the States and Settlements, their cash, bank balances, securities, etc., together with all State land, mines and minerals, and all railways, ports and harbours (with the exception of the port and harbour properties vested in the Penang Harbour Board). The exception to this wholesale transfer of property will be the residences and estates of the Malay Rulers themselves and any buildings and land which are used for the purposes of Mohammedan religion, as well as property pertaining to the endowment of Mohammedan religious institutions. As Penang and Malacca will, under the new constitution, be transferred from the jurisdiction of the Government of the Straits Settlements to that of the Malayan Union, it will be necessary for an agreement to be reached as to what is to be the division of the assets and liabilities of these two Settlements between the new Government of the Colony of Singapore and the Government of the Malayan Union.

25. In considering the need for a clear integration of the Governments of Malaysia, His Majesty's Government have concluded that, for the time being at any rate, the Island of Singapore requires separate treatment and should not be a part of the Malayan Union. As a great centre of entrepot trade and predominantly Chinese in population, Singapore has interests distinct from those of the mainland, as a producer largely for export, and it is vital that at the outset the successful establishment of the Malayan Union,

===== Page 168 =====
With its own capital, should not be imperilled by the divergence of view and friction that might possibly arise if the Island and the Peninsula were joined in one political group. The Settlement of Singapore including the Cocos or Keeling Islands and Christmas Island but excluding Labuan, will therefore be constituted as the Colony of Singapore and will be governed by a Governor with the assistance of an Executive and a Legislative Council.

26. The Executive Council will consist of the Governor (Chairman), five ex officio Members and such Official Members, and such Unofficial Members not exceeding three as the Governor on His Majesty's instructions may appoint.

27. The Legislative Council will consist of the Governor (President), four ex officio Members, five Official Members to be nominated by the Governor, nine elected Unofficial Members and two nominated Unofficial Members. An unofficial majority will therefore be created. The four ex officio Members will be:

(1) The Colonial Secretary;
(2) The Senior Officer Commanding the Troops, Singapore;
(3) The Attorney General; and
(4) The Financial Secretary.

The choice of the five Official Members will be in the Governor's discretion, subject to His Majesty's Instructions. It is not considered possible at this stage to introduce any form of individual electoral franchise for the election of the nine Unofficial Members. The proposal is to grant to representative bodies and Associations the right to elect representatives.

===== Page 169 =====
To seats on the Legislative Council, but it is not proposed to specify at this stage the bodies or Associations to whom these powers will be entrusted. This matter will be considered by the Governor, who will review in the interval between his appointment and the convening of the Legislative Council not only the claims to representation of existing bodies or Associations but also other sections of the community not at present effectively organised to express their political views. It will be a condition of the grant of a right of election to the Legislative Council to the bodies or Associations concerned that their rules governing procedure for the election shall first have been approved by the Governor. The Governor will be empowered to nominate members to represent communities pending the formation of representative Associations.

28. It is intended that there shall be a Court of unlimited civil and criminal jurisdiction in the Colony, which will be a successor to and exercise similar powers to those formerly exercised by the Supreme Court of the Straits Settlements.

29. Local Government in the Island of Singapore was carried out in the town area by the Municipal Commission, which was an unofficial body levying its own rates, and in the rural areas by the Rural Board, which was manned by Government officers and subsidised from Government resources. To reduce the number of administrative bodies and to provide uniformity and centralised control in what is territorially a small area, it is proposed eventually to abolish the Rural Board and to extend the limits of the Municipality to cover the whole Island. The Municipal Commission,

===== Page 170 =====
Commission, as reconstituted, will consist of the President, who will be a senior officer of the Malayan Civil Service, and of twenty-four unofficial members. Of these, sixteen will be elected by various representative bodies or Associations, and eight will be appointed by the Governor. In making these appointments, the Governor will pay particular attention to securing adequate representation of rural areas. Four Commissioners will represent rural areas, and there is intended to be adequate representation of the various sections and interests of the community in proportion to their relative importance and their contribution to the prosperity and welfare of the Colony.

30. The Singapore Improvement Trust, a separate body but closely connected with the Municipal Commission and with the Rural Board, formerly dealt with slum clearance, town improvement, and town and country planning. It was financed by an Improvement rate levied on property within the Municipality and by a contribution from the general revenue of the Colony. It is proposed that the Improvement Trust shall be reconstituted as before with a Board consisting of eleven Members, five of whom are ex officio Trustees and six are nominated Trustees.

31. The Singapore Harbour Board, which owned and administered the Dock and Harbour area, will be constituted before with a Chairman and not less than four or more than eight other Members, all appointed by the Governor.

32. It is vital that Singapore should be assured of a fair share of trade with the Peninsula and that it should not suffer from any discriminatory tariff which might be imposed by the Malayan Union in favour of Penang or Malacca. It is recommended, therefore, that it shall be provided in

===== Page 171 =====
Some appropriate way, whether in Royal Instructions issued to the Governors of Singapore and of the Malayan Union respectively or in some other constitutional instrument, that no legislation or tariff or other duty, which the Governor of Singapore represents to be likely to injure the interest of Singapore, shall be enacted or brought into effect without the prior sanction of the Secretary of State.

33. When the Military Administration ceases and the new Civil Government is established in Singapore, it will be impracticable to convene the Legislative Council immediately. At the same time, legislation to provide for the change-over to Civil Government will be urgently necessary. To cover the period between the end of the Military Administration and the convening of the Legislative Council, the new Constitution will specifically empower the Governor alone to legislate with the help of an Advisory Council. The Governor will consult this Advisory Council before enacting legislation but will not be bound to accept the Council's advice. In selecting the members of the Council, the Governor will guide himself as far as is practicable by the intended composition of the Legislative Council.

34. It is recognised that there were and will be close ties between the Island and the Peninsula, and it is no part of the policy of His Majesty's Government to preclude or prejudice in any way the fusion of the two administrations in a wider union at a later date should they both agree to such a course. In the meantime, there is a special need to develop harmonious and mutually beneficial relations between them on matters of trade and subjects of pen-Malayan importance, such as Posts and Telegraphs, Immigration,

===== Page 172 =====
Currency, Civil Aviation, and Shipping. These subjects, which require identity of policy throughout Malaysia, will be regulated by particular agreements between the Union and the Colony.

===== Page 173 =====
OUTWARD TELEGRAM

This document must be paraphrased if the communication of its contents to any person outside Government Service is authorised.

50823/6/45

Cypher

TO S.E.A.C., H.Q. CAMP.

FROM S. OF S., COLONIES.

Sent 27th October, 1945, 14.45 hrs, (to War Office for onward transmission)

Addressed to S.E.A.C., H.Q. Camp.
Repeated to S.A.C.S.E.A.

Following for MacMichael from Gater, Colonial Office.

Your telegram No. 145 cypher of the 21st of October. Transfer of State property to Union ownership.

We are grateful to you for drawing our attention to the point you make. As far as we can ascertain here there is no religious property now in State ownership which is not (repeat not) Mohammedan, but we will bear in mind the desirability of avoiding any charge of discrimination against other religions when time comes for drafting the relevant section of the Order in Council.

===== Page 174 =====
C. O.

Mr. Monson 25/10

Mr. Gent 26

Permit. U.S. of S. 27.10 at once

Parly. U.S. of S.

Secretary of State.

No...

DRAFT. CYPHER TELEGRAM

S.E.A.C., H.Q. CAMP
(with CAIVO.)

Repeated to
SACSEA

Following for MacMichael from Gater,
Colonial Office.

Your telegram No.145 of the
21st of October. Transfer of State
property to Union ownership.

We are grateful to you for drawing
our attention to the point you make. As
far as we can ascertain here there is no
religious property now in State ownership which is not (repeat not)

Mohammedan, but we will bear in mind the
desirability of avoiding any charge of
discrimination against other religions
in drafting the relevant section of the
Order in Council.

===== Page 175 =====
TOP SECRET
CIPHER TELEGRAM
079228

This message will not be distributed outside British Government Departments or Headquarters or re-transmitted, even in cipher, without being paraphrased.
(Messages marked O.T.P. need not be paraphrased.)

COPY FOR REGISTRATION

From :- BLM (M)
To :- The War Office
Info :- Sacsea
14 Army

IMMEDIATE

985 BLM (M) cipher 25 Oct TOP SECRET

Following signal received from Sir Harold MacMichael.
Sultan of Selangor signed the treaty at 1215 today,
Wednesday October 24 with entire willingness and amiability.
War Office please pass to Secretary of State for the Colonies.

Note by C.6 Tels :- A/c passed to Colonial Office

C.6.(Telegrams) Distbn by C.A.1 Distributed to:-

Copies to: S of S.
P.U.S.
U.S. of S.
D.U.S.(A).
F.M.
D.F.(a)
A.C.S.
C.I.G.S.
V.C.I.G.S.
A.C.I.G.S.(O).
D.C.A.
D.D.C.A.(M.G.).
Col(CA)(3)
C.A.1.
F.5.
D.M.O.
D.D.M.O.(A).
M.O.1.12.
D.M.I.
D.D.M.I.(1).
M.I.2.17.

MS.25
Secretary of State
Sir G. Gater
Mr. Creech-Jones
Sir A. Dawe
Mr. Gent
Mr. Poynton
Lt. Col. Chalmers
Mr. Bates
Mr. Monson
Mr. Morgan

Colonial Office (Mr.Gent).
(Tels C.D. Miss Barnett)

===== Page 176 =====
TOP SECRET
CIPHER TELEGRAM

This message will not be distributed outside British Government Departments or Headquarters or re-transmitted, even in cipher, without being paraphrased.

(Messages marked O.T.P. need not be paraphrased.)

From: War Office. Desp. 24 2330 Oct 45.
D.T.O. 24 1730/11

To: B.M.A. (M) S.E.A.G. IMMEDIATE.

Info: ALFSEA

61341 cipher C.A.1. 24 Oct 45. TOP SECRET.

Following from Colonial Office.

BEGIN. From Secretary of State for the Colonies.

Your 466 B.M.A. (M) cipher 9 Oct. The wording of paragraph 5 of the Memorandum of 20th September on future constitution regarding membership of the Legislative Council is based on final memorandum prepared in consultation with Willan which in turn repeated wording of second draft containing amendments consequential on discussions held last December.

The point about allowing for a future unofficial majority is appreciated but if Legislative Council is constituted as stated in memorandum of 20th September this would not finalise constitution permanently nor bar future amendments to permit unofficial majority when time considered appropriate for change. It would however be desirable for such change-over which would represent an important stage in constitutional development to be made formally by order-in-council and not by administrative action as would happen if seats for official members were not filled to total of twenty-one. Other constitutional changes would then need consideration, especially vesting of reserved powers of legislation in the Governor.

C.6. (Tels).

Distributed to:-
MS.25
Secretary of State
Sir G. Gater
Mr. Creech-Jones
Sir A. Dawe
Mr. Gent
Mr. Poynton
Lt. Col. Chalmers
Mr. Bates
Mr. Monson
Mr. Morgan

Copies to:
D.C.A.
Col. C.A. (3)
C.A.1.
Colonial Office (Mr. Gent)
(Tels.C.D. Miss Barnett)(15)

===== Page 177 =====
INWARD TELEGRAM

This document must be paraphrased if the communication of its contents to any person outside Government Service is authorised.

Cypher

FROM S.E.A.C., H.Q. CAMP

TO COLONIAL OFFICE.

D. 21st October, 1945.
R. 21st October, 1945, 23:80 hrs. (via War Office)

IMMEDIATE

145 cipher 21st October. Secret.

Addressed to Colonial Office.
Repeated to S.A.C.S.E.A.

Following for Greater Colonial Office from MacMichael.

I note that paragraph 10 of memorandum on future constitution for Malayan Peninsula, in referring to properties to be excluded from transfer to Union ownership, restricts allusion to religious properties of Mohammedans only. In drafting Order in Council it will obviously be desirable (repeat desirable) to obviate any possible charge of discrimination against other religions (repeat religions).

Of course such criticisms would have no (repeat no) real force since question of transfer only arises in case of State (repeat State) property but this does not make misunderstanding any less undesirable.

===== Page 178 =====
INWARD TELEGRAM

Registration on 55104/20/1/45

This message will not be distributed outside British Government Departments or Headquarters or re-transmitted, even in cipher, without being paraphrased. (Messages marked O.T.P. need not be paraphrased).

Cypher

FROM S.E.A.C.

TO S. OF S. COLONIES.

D. 20th October, 1945.
R. 20th October 1945, 17.45 hrs. (via War Office)

EMERGENCY

Cite 142 TOP SECRET.

Addressed to S. of S. for the Colonies.
Repeated to S.A.C.S.R.A.

Following from MacMichael.

1. His Highness the Sultan of Johore and I, duly signed the treaty at 4.25 this afternoon, 20th October, in an atmosphere of greatest possible friendliness.

2. The question of publicity arises. I have asked the Sultan not to inform anyone that he has signed, but to reply to any enquiries that negotiations are proceeding in a smooth and cordial atmosphere, and that no doubt a formal announcement will be made by His Majesty's Government in due course. I shall take a similar line myself in the event of enquiries, and General Dempsey, with whom I have discussed the matter, is giving similar instructions. This will not, of course, preclude my showing any other Sultan, with whom I am dealing, the treaty signed by Sultan of Johore, in confidence.

===== Page 179 =====
The fact that a treaty or treaties has been signed will no doubt leak out sooner or later, but I assume that the first formal announcement should come from your end, and that informal announcements from this end are therefore out of place. Moreover, it is important that the remaining Sultans should not get the impression that their hands are being publicly forced by pressure of publicity.

Distributed to:

M.S.25
Secretary of State
Sir G. Gater
Mr. Creech Jones
Sir A. Dawe
Mr. Gent
Mr. Poynton
Lt. Col. Chalmers
Mr. Bates
Mr. Paskin
Mr. Morgan

===== Page 180 =====
OUTWARD TELEGRAM

This document must be paraphrased if the communication of its contents to any person outside Government Service is authorised.

50823/6/45

Cypher

TO B.M.A. (M) A.L.F.S.E.A.
(Via G.A.I War Office)

FROM S. OF S., COLONIES.

Sent 20th October, 1945. 13.00 hrs. (to War Office for onward transmission)

For ALFSEA from Secretary of State for the Colonies.

Your telegram 466 B.M.A. (M) 9th of October Top Secret cypher from B.M.A. (M). The wording of paragraph 5 of the Memorandum of 20th September on future constitution regarding membership of the Legislative Council is based on final memorandum prepared in consultation with Willan which in turn repeated wording of second draft containing amendments consequential on discussions held last December.

The point about allowing for a future unofficial majority is appreciated but if Legislative Council is constituted as stated in memorandum of 20th September this would not finalise constitution permanently nor bar future amendments to permit unofficial majority when time considered appropriate for change. It would however be desirable for such change-over which would represent an important stage in constitutional development to be made formally by order-in-council and not by administrative action as would happen if seats for official members were not filled to total of twenty-one. Other constitutional changes would then need consideration, especially vesting of reserved powers of legislation in the Governor.

===== Page 181 =====
DRAFT. CYPHER TELEGRAM

B. M. A. (M) ALFSEA.

For Alfsea from Secretary of State for the Colonies.

Your telegram 466 B. M. A. (M) 9th of October Top Secret from B. M. A. (M), the wording of paragraph 5 of the Memorandum on future constitution of 20th September regarding membership of the Legislative Council is, based on final Willan memorandum which in turn repeated wording of second draft containing amendments consequential on discussions held last December. The phrase "not more than" in respect of twenty-one official members was not used in the Willan memorandum, and the present query was not then put forward.

The point about allowing for a future unofficial majority is appreciated but if Legislative Council is constituted and laid down in memorandum of 20th September this would not finalise constitution permanently nor bar future amendments to permit unofficial majority when time considered.

===== Page 182 =====
Considered appropriate for change. Suggest no purpose, therefore, in amending present wording.

It would, however, be desirable for such change to be their sole reference: an important change in constitution development to make formally by order in council and not by administrative action. If, as soon as such happened, no official members were filled to a total of twenty-one, other constitutional changes would then need consideration, especially vesting reserved powers in legislation in the Governor.

===== Page 183 =====
INWARD TELEGRAM

COPY FOR REGISTRATION

This document must be paraphrased if the communication of its contents to any person outside Government Service is authorised.

Cypher

FROM A.L.F.S.E.A.

TO S. OF S., COLONIES.

D. 8th October, 1945.
R. 9th October 15.30 hrs.
(Via War Office)

IMMEDIATE
466 B.M.A.(M) 9th October TOP SECRET.

From B.M.A.(M).

Please pass Colonial Office.

Reference Memorandum on future constitution for Malaya Peninsula dated 20th September copy of which sent by Bourdillon to us by air. Paragraph 5 Legislative Council should have 21 Official and 21 Unofficial Members. Please see note of second discussion at Colonial Office, 11th December 1944 forwarded to you by Willan on 14th December our Reference TS/15/CA(MPU). Last sentence Paragraph 1 (A) reads "Total number of Officials should not (repeat not) be more than Twenty-one". Is this alteration deliberate as it is amendment of importance. Earlier proposal allowed for introduction unofficial majority at later stage without amending constitution and was a near EST of our intentions when time was ripe.

Distributed to:

M.S.25  Mr. Poynton
Secretary of State  Lt. Col. Chalmers
Sir G. Gater  Mr. Bates
Mr. Creech-Jones  Mr. Monson
Sir A. Dawe  Mr. Morgan
Mr. Gent

===== Page 184 =====
MEMORANDUM ON FUTURE CONSTITUTION FOR MALAY PENINSULA

The Cabinet has finally confirmed the policy of creating a Malayan Union (as opposed to an extended Federation of Malay States) which will comprise all the Malay States in the Peninsula, together with the Settlements of Penang and Malacca. The Constitution of the Union will provide for a central authority (both Executive and Legislative) from which all other authorities in the Peninsula should derive their powers. (This postulate is inherent in the conception of a Union as opposed to that of a Federation).

2. Subject to this basic conception the nine Malay States and the Settlements of Penang and Malacca will be retained as geographical units with their present boundaries to deal with such local affairs as may be devolved upon them by the central authority.

3. One of the most important matters to settle is the position of the Malay Rulers under the new Constitution. The idea that there should be an Upper Chamber of Sultans has been examined, but it is not felt that this would be appropriate. The possibility has been rejected partly because of the difficulty of devising satisfactory relations between the Lower and Upper Chambers, partly because the Sultans do not possess the necessary qualifications to perform the functions of a Second Chamber in any real and effective manner, partly because a Second Chamber of Malay Sultans would be an inappropriate organ in the Government of a country of which important areas will be parts of the present British Colony of the Straits Settlements, and partly because it would be out of keeping with the proposal that Malayan Union citizenship should comprise not only Malays but people of every race who have made Malaya their homeland.

It is proposed instead that the Sultans collectively should

===== Page 185 =====
Should form an Advisory Council to the Governor. The subjects with which this Council would be concerned would be principally questions of Mohammedan religion (in relation to which the special position of the Sultans has always been recognised), but other subjects would also be open for discussion in the Council either at the instance of the Governor or at the instance of any of the Sultans with the Governor's consent. The functions of the Council are further described in paragraph 8 beneath. It would meet regularly under the presidency of the Governor and would be regarded as a permanent body. Its meetings would be attended by all the ceremony necessary to maintain the personal dignity of the Sultans. It would not, however, impair the right of direct access between individual Sultans and the Governor. It is felt that the new position of the Sultans should be defined in the Constitution itself. When the time comes to negotiate the new Treaties this will be necessary to satisfy the Sultans, who will not be content to be told vaguely that "an appropriate position" will be allotted to them by the new Central Legislature.

4. Apart from the Governor, the three principal officers of Government will be the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General and the Financial Secretary. The position of the British Residents or Advisers in each of the States should be modified. Before the war, the status of these officers was higher than that of any other officials save the High Commissioner, but with the establishment of the Union Government their importance will diminish and they should be made subordinate to the Chief Secretary of the Union Government. It is proposed that these officers, as well as the officers at the head of the two Settlements, should be uniformly styled "Resident Commissioners".

5. It is proposed that Executive and Legislative Councils for the Malayan Union should be created with the following constitution.

===== Page 186 =====
The Executive Council should have 5 official and 5 unofficial members, in addition to the Governor. Of the official members, the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General, and the Financial Secretary should be ex-officio, while the other 2 would be nominated by the Governor. The unofficial members would also be nominated by the Governor. A racial basis should not be prescribed for such nominations, but in the first instance, it would be desirable that there be one European, one Malay, one Chinese, and one Indian unofficial member, the Governor being left to nominate the most suitable unofficial to fill the remaining vacancy regardless of race. Save with the consent of the Governor, unofficial membership of the Executive Council would be confined to Malayan Union Citizens.

The Legislative Council should have, besides the Governor, 21 official and 21 unofficial members. Fourteen of the latter should represent areas on a population basis, and the remainder should represent important interests throughout the Union. There has hitherto been no experience of any system of elections in Malaya, and for an initial phase at any rate, it would be desirable that the unofficial members be nominated by the Governor, who would be required to select suitable persons on the above representative basis as far as possible. Five of the official members would be the official members of the Executive Council and the remainder would be nominated by the Governor.

6. When Military Administration ceases and the new Civil Government is established in the Malay Peninsula, it is likely to be impracticable, even if it were desirable, to complete the formal instruments necessary to set up a Legislative Council immediately. To cover the interregnum between the end of the Military Administration and the setting up of a Legislative Council, the new constitution should specifically provide for the Governor alone to be responsible for legislation and for the establishment.

===== Page 187 =====
Establishment of an Advisory Council to assist him in this task. The Governor would normally consult this Advisory Council before enacting legislation, but would not be bound to accept the Council's advice. The instrument should not specify the precise number of official and unofficial members, but the Governor should be instructed to guide himself as far as possible when making appointments by the intended composition of the Legislative Council as set out in paragraph 5 above.

7. The next question to be considered is the future of the State and Settlement Councils. In the past, the Sultans were Presidents of the State Councils, but the Councils were largely composed of Malays and made scant provision for any representation of non-Malay interests. In the new constitutional arrangements, it would be inappropriate that a Malay Sultan should preside, and it will be desirable that the President of the State or Settlement Council of the future should be the Resident Commissioner. Exact membership cannot be defined in advance, but members should be appointed by the Governor after consulting the Resident Commissioner. As regards the nomination of unofficial Representatives, all practicable regard should be paid to the racial proportions of the settled population of each State and Settlement, but broader public interests should also govern selections.

The State and Settlement Councils should be empowered to legislate (a) on all matters which, in the opinion of the Governor in Council, are of a merely local or private nature in the State or Settlement; and (b) on all subjects in respect of which power is delegated to them by law by the Legislative Council of the Malayan Union.

8. In each State, side by side with the State Councils, there should be established Advisory Malay Councils to the Sultans, which should be presided over by the Sultan and whose members, subject to the Governor's approval, should be appointed by the Sultan.

===== Page 188 =====
The main functions of these Advisory Malay Councils would be in relation to matters affecting Mohammedan religion but they would also advise the Sultan on other matters at the request of the Resident Commissioner and with the approval of the Governor.

On matters of Mohammedan religion (with the exception of anything connected with the collection of taxes or tithes, which must be left strictly within the control of the Central Legislature or the State Councils), it is proposed that the Sultans should have powers of legislating in their individual States. In doing so, they would use their Advisory Malay Councils, which for these purposes would be virtually legislative bodies. Legislation resulting from this system would not, however, automatically and immediately become law, but would require the Governor's assent. The Governor would in no case grant or refuse his assent without consulting his own Advisory Council of Malay Sultans, though he would not be bound to accept their advice. It is felt that this proposal to leave legislative power on matters of Mohammedan religion in the hands of the Sultans individually and collectively (subject to the necessary checks as indicated above) should go a long way towards reconciling the Sultans to their new position, in that it would maintain their special status amongst their own Malay people in a field in which it has hitherto been always recognised. It is also felt that the proposal to refer legislation within this field to the Governor's Advisory Council of Sultans would lend reality to the deliberations of that body, which might otherwise be little more than a facade.

9. It is proposed that the organisation of the Courts should be as follows. It is suggested that there should be a separate High Court of the Malayan Union with a Chief Justice at its head. In addition to the Chief Justice, there should be judges of the High Court stationed at various suitable centres throughout the Peninsula. In accordance with previous practice and the dictates of economy, the Chief Justice and the Puisne Judges of the Supreme Court in Singapore should be declared ex-officio judges in the High Court of the Malayan Union and vice versa. In practice the Court of

===== Page 189 =====
Appeal, whether sitting in the Union or in Singapore, would invariably be composed of the two Chief Justices and one Puisne Judge. There seems to be no reason for creating a separate Court of Appeal, which would involve the appointment of Appeal Judges. The new constitution should provide for Appeals to the Privy Council from the Court of Appeal of the Malayan Union.

10. In order that the future Malayan Union may become a reality, it is felt that, subject to the exceptions noted below, all State and Settlement properties should be transferred to the Union Government, which should assume full liability for State and Settlement debts. The Union would take over all revenues from the States and the Settlements, their cash, bank balances, securities, etc., all State land, mines and minerals and all railways, ports and harbours (with the exception of the port and harbour properties vested in the Penang Harbour Board). The exception to this wholesale transfer of property relates to the residences and estates of the Sultans themselves and any buildings and land which are used for purposes of Mohammedan religion, as well as property pertaining to the endowment of Mohammedan religious institutions. It is felt that the above properties should be excluded from transfer to Union ownership, on the grounds that they are closely bound up with the Sultans' personal prestige, and with the position (which it is proposed to preserve) of the individual Sultans as leaders of their Malay subjects in their States in matters of Mohammedan religion.

In making provision for the exemption of these properties from transfer to Union ownership, it is important to bear in mind that no commitment should be given to the Sultans which would prevent the Defence authorities from acquiring the necessary rights in property which they might require at any time for strategic purposes. Provided such commitments are not given, it is felt that this aspect of the matter need not be specifically mentioned in the new Constitution. The mere exemption from

===== Page 190 =====
Transfer to Union ownership does not place the property in question irrevocably beyond the control of the Service authorities. The new treaties with the individual Sultans will themselves give His Majesty the power to legislate in each State. It is important, in fact, to distinguish in this connection between exemption from transfer to Union ownership and exemption from His Majesty's jurisdiction. The latter is, of course, not proposed.

11. In order further to safeguard the personal position of the Sultans, it is felt that special provision should be made as regards their emoluments. These cannot actually be exempted from transfer to Union control (i.e., left to be provided out of State funds), since under the new Constitution the States will have only those revenues which they may receive or collect by the decision of the central Legislature of the Union. But it should nevertheless be ensured that the Sultans' personal allowances are continued from year to year on a scale appropriate to their dignity and position.

12. Finally, it is proposed that there should be express provision in the Constitution empowering the Courts to interpret it, and laying down that in case of conflict, Ordinances of the Malayan Union must prevail over enactments of State and Settlement Councils.

===== Page 191 =====
His Majesty's Government have during the past years devoted much thought to the future of Malaya, and to the best means of leading the Peninsula, as a strong and united country, towards the goal of self-reliance and self-government within the British Commonwealth of Nations. Unless His Majesty's Government use their right of protecting Malaya in order to lead her forward in this direction, they will not have fulfilled their trust and will have failed to carry out their obligations towards the Malay people, towards the Malay Rulers as Leaders of that people, and towards the whole population of the country, of whatever race or creed.

2. Accordingly His Majesty's Government have decided that certain changes are necessary in the structure of Government which existed in Malaya before the Japanese invasion. They feel confident that the Malay Rulers will co-operate with them in bringing these changes into effect.

3. The first necessary change is that His Majesty should have such power in the nine States as will enable him to set up the institutions which will provide for the political development of the country as a whole.

4. That is the first step. The next step will be to create a Malayan Union, which will consist of the nine States in the Peninsula, and of the Settlements of Penang (including Province Wellesley) and Malacca. It is intended that, at least for the present, Singapore shall not form part of the Union but shall be administered separately. The capital of the Union would thus be established at Kuala Lumpur, and provision would be made for the special treatment of Singapore with its particular interests and its large Chinese population.

5. If [POSSIBLY MISSING]

===== Page 192 =====
5. If the Malayan Union is to be a reality, and if the country is to become strong and self-reliant, there must be created a Malayan Union citizenship, which must embrace all persons truly belonging to the country. This would include all persons at any time born in the Union or in the island of Singapore, and all persons who at the date when Malayan Union citizenship is established, have ordinarily been resident in the Union or the island of Singapore for ten years out of the preceding period of fifteen years. (In calculating the fifteen years period, the period of Japanese occupation of Malaya will be disregarded). These arrangements will ensure that the Malays of the country will automatically become Malayan Union citizens. It will also be possible for people to acquire Malayan Union citizenship on application after five years ordinary residence in the Malayan Union or in Singapore. All such applications will be carefully examined, and before being admitted to citizenship, applicants will be required to swear an oath of allegiance to the Malayan Union.

Thus there will be no fear that the Malays will be submerged. But side by side with the Malays, those men and women of other races whose real loyalty is towards Malaya will be able to reap the reward of their loyalty, for Malayan Union citizenship will carry with it the qualification for public and administrative service in the Union. This will strengthen the Malays and the country. (Great Britain has learnt the richness of such an infusion of new blood and talent and it is one of the foundations of her strength.)

6. The Malayan Union will be inaugurated with a central legislative body (the Legislative Council) which will include

===== Page 193 =====
Include, besides the Governor of the Union, official and unofficial members nominated by the Governor. There will also be an Executive Council, which will have official and unofficial members in addition to the Governor. As in the case of the Legislative Council, the unofficial members of the Executive Council will be nominated by the Governor.

7. The Legislative Council will pass laws for the Malayan Union, but there will also be Councils in each State (State Councils) and in the two Settlements of Penang and Malacca (Settlement Councils). These Councils will be empowered to legislate first on all matters which, in the opinion of the Governor in Council, are of a local or private nature in the State or Settlement, and secondly, on all subjects in respect of which power is delegated to them by law by the Legislative Council of the Malayan Union. In each State and in the two Settlements the principal British officer will be called the Resident Commissioner, and he will preside over the State or Settlement Council. The members will be appointed by the Governor after he has consulted the Resident Commissioner.

8. Thus there will be a central legislature which will have ultimate authority, as is necessary if the Malayan Union is to be a real Union and is to be a source of political strength, but which will delegate to local bodies such powers as can best be exercised by them. But in deciding to establish this system, His Majesty's Government have constantly borne in mind the special position of the Malay Rulers as traditional and spiritual leaders of the Malay people. It is intended, therefore, that the Ruler in each State will be provided with an Advisory Malay Council.

===== Page 194 =====
This Council will be presided over by the Ruler, and he will appoint its members, subject to the agreement of the Governor. The main functions of these Advisory Malay Councils will be in respect of matters relating to the Mohammedan religion but there may be other matters on which their advice may be useful to the Ruler from time to time. On matters relating to the Mohammedan religion (with the exception of matters connected with the collection of taxes or tithes, which must be left within the control of the central legislature or the State Councils), each Ruler will have powers of legislating in his State. In doing so, he will use his Advisory Malay Council, which for these purposes will have a legislative character. Laws resulting from this system will come into effect subject to the Governor's assent. The agreement of the Governor is necessary, because he must ensure the necessary coordination between the States in these matters, and he must also ensure that laws on matters relating to the Mohammedan religion do not come into conflict with the general law of the country. In this work, the Governor will be assisted by an Advisory Council of the Malay Rulers jointly sitting with him.

9. This Advisory Council, which will not only have the important task of passing in review all legislation on matters relating to the Mohammedan religion sent forward by the individual Rulers in their States, but will also discuss other subjects either at the instance of the Governor or, provided the Governor's agreement is obtained, at the instance of any of the Rulers, will meet regularly, with due ceremony, under the Presidency of the Governor, and will be regarded as a permanent body. It will not impair the right of direct access between the individual Rulers and the Governor. It will ensure that each of the Rulers can play his part not only in the affairs of his State.

===== Page 195 =====
10. In other ways also, the dignity and prestige of the Rulers will be fully maintained. State Government property in general and assets (as well as State Government debts and liabilities) will be transferred to the Malayan Union Government, but this will not apply to the personal residences and estates of the Rulers themselves, to any State buildings and lands which are used for purposes of the Mohammedan religion, or to property pertaining to the endowment of Mohammedan religious institutions. Furthermore, on the financial side, the personal allowances of each Ruler will be maintained and secured on a scale appropriate to his dignity and position.

11. The new Malayan Union will not break with tradition. It will preserve the traditional and spiritual dignity of the Malay Rulers. It will be the policy to safeguard the rights of the Malay people in matters of land reservation and in their facilities for education and progress. But while preserving the dignity of the past, the Union will look towards the future, and will establish Malaya and its people on a firm basis of progress and self-reliance. His Majesty's Government are confident that the Rulers will appreciate the opportunity which is theirs of helping to create a new and bright future for their country.

===== Page 196 =====
Position before Japanese Invasion.

The Rulers were, in theory, independent Sovereigns with sole jurisdiction in their several States.

The Rulers were merely bound by treaties (concluded at various times with each individual Ruler) to have a British Adviser and to accept his advice. No modification of this position was possible without a new treaty.

The Rulers were not bound to accept the advice of their British Advisers in matters pertaining to Mohammedan religion and Malay custom.

The Rulers were Presidents of the State Councils. All State Legislation was enacted in their name. Similarly, all appointments in the State were technically under their authority.

Position under the new Constitution.

The Rulers will cede "full power and jurisdiction" to His Majesty. They will therefore no longer be independent sovereigns.

The powers of the Rulers will depend upon His Majesty's exercise of his jurisdiction. Modifications in their powers can be ordained by His Majesty in Council without further reference to the Rulers themselves.

The Rulers in their several States will still be permitted to legislate (with the help of Advisory Malay Councils) on matters of Mohammedan religion and Malay custom, but such legislation will be subject to the assent of the Governor, who will first consult his collective "Advisory Council of Sultans".

The Rulers will in future play no part in the State Councils. The President of each State Council will be the Resident Commissioner. Moreover, State Councils will only legislate on matters allotted to them by the central legislature. Appointments in the State will be under the authority of the Government of the Union - direct in the case of Central Government Service, and delegated in the case of local government services.

===== Page 197 =====
Position before Japanese Invasion.

The personal allowances of the Rulers and the Ruling House Allowances were voted each year by the State Council (presided over by the Rulers themselves).

Property in the State, apart from private property, was State property. This applied to the residences of the Rulers, the residences of their dependants, religious institutions, etc.

To sum up, the Rulers were nominally supreme in their State.

Position under the new Constitution.

These allowances will be safeguarded, but they will be voted by the central legislature, which will dispose of all Union revenues.

Government property in general will be transferred to the Union, but the residences and estates of the Rulers and their immediate dependants and the State establishments connected with the Mohammedan religion will be excluded from transfer.

Supreme authority in each State and in the country as a whole will rest with the Governor and the central legislature, to which the Rulers will be subject. On the other hand, the traditional position of the Rulers as leaders of the Malays (particularly in spiritual matters) will be respected. An attempt will also be made to create in the Rulers something of a pan-Malayan outlook, by means of the new "Advisory Council of Sultans" which the Governor will have as a permanent body.

===== Page 198 =====
His Majesty's Government has during the past years devoted much thought to the future of Malaya, and to the best means of leading the Peninsula, as a strong and united country, towards the goal of self-reliance and self-government within the British Commonwealth of Nations. While other lands in the British Empire are moving towards full nationhood, Malaya must not be allowed to remain weak and politically undeveloped, dependent for her very survival on the continuance of outside protection. Unless His Majesty's Government use their right of protecting Malaya in order to help Malaya to protect herself, they will not have fulfilled their trust and will have failed to carry out their obligations towards the Malay people, towards the Malay Rulers as Leaders of that people, and towards the whole population of the country, of whatever race or creed.

2. Accordingly, His Majesty's Government have decided that certain changes are necessary in the structure of Government which existed in Malaya before the Japanese invasion. They now ask the Malay Rulers to assist them in bringing these changes into effect, confident that the Malay Rulers, like themselves, have no wish save for the progress and happiness of their country.

3. The first necessary change is that His Majesty should be granted such power in the nine States as will enable him to set up the institutions which will provide for the political development of the country as a whole. Under the present Agreements, he does not have this power. That is why His Majesty's Government have decided that these agreements must be replaced by new ones.

===== Page 199 =====
4. That is the first step. The next step will be to create a Malayan Union, which will consist of the nine States in the Peninsula, and of the Settlements of Penang (including Province Wellesley) and Malacca. It is intended that, at least for the present, Singapore shall not form part of the Union but shall be administered separately. The capital of the Union would thus be established at Kuala Lumpur, and provision would be made for the special treatment of Singapore with its particular interests and its large Chinese population.

5. If the Malayan Union is to be a reality, and if the country is to become strong and self-reliant, there must be created a Malayan Union citizenship, which must embrace all persons truly belonging to the country. This would include all persons born in the Union or in the island of Singapore, and all persons who at the date when Malayan Union citizenship is established, have ordinarily been resident in the Union or the island of Singapore for ten years out of the preceding period of fifteen years. (In calculating the fifteen years period, the period of Japanese occupation of Malaya will be disregarded). It will also be possible for people to acquire Malayan Union citizenship on application after five years ordinary residence in the Malayan Union or in Singapore. All such applications will be carefully examined, and before being admitted to citizenship, applicants will be required to swear an oath of allegiance to the Malayan Union. In this way, the Malays of the country will automatically become Malayan Union citizens. As regards other races, citizenship will be open to members of those races who are qualified by length of residence and for whom Malaya has become their real home, but not to others. Thus there will be no fear that the Malays will be submerged. The claims of all who claim Malaya as their homeland and the right to citizenship of the Malaya of the future will be tested and defined. But side by side with the Malays, those men and women of other races whose real loyalty is towards Malaya will be able to reap the reward of their loyalty, for

===== Page 200 =====
Malayan Union citizenship will carry with it the qualification for public and administrative service in the Union. This will strengthen the Malays and the country. Great Britain has learnt the richness of such an infusion of new blood and talent, and it is one of the foundations of her strength.

6. The Malayan Union will be inaugurated with a central legislative body (the Legislative Council), which will include, besides the Governor of the Union, official and unofficial members nominated by the Governor. There will also be an Executive Council, which will have official and unofficial members in addition to the Governor. As in the case of the Legislative Council, the unofficial members of the Executive Council will be nominated by the Governor.

7. The Legislative Council will pass laws for the Malayan Union, but there will also be Councils in each State (State Councils) and in the two Settlements of Penang and Malacca (Settlement Councils). These Councils will be empowered to legislate first on all matters which, in the opinion of the Governor in Council, are of a local or private nature in the State or Settlement, and secondly, on all subjects in respect of which power is delegated to them by law by the Legislative Council of the Malayan Union. In each State and in the two Settlements the principal British officer will be called the Resident Commissioner, and he will preside over the State or Settlement Council. The members will be appointed by the Governor after he has consulted the Resident Commissioner.

8. Thus there will be a central legislature which will have ultimate authority, as is necessary if the Malayan Union is to be a real Union and is to be a source of political strength, but which will delegate to local bodies such powers as can best be exercised by them. But in

===== Page 201 =====
Deciding to establish this system, His Majesty's Government have constantly borne in mind the special position of the Malay Rulers as traditional and spiritual leaders of the Malay people. It is intended, therefore, that the Ruler in each State will be provided with an Advisory Malay Council. This Council will be presided over by the Ruler, and he will appoint its members, subject to the agreement of the Governor. The main functions of these Advisory Malay Councils will be in relation to matters affecting Mohammedan religion and Malay custom, but there may be other matters on which their advice may be useful to the Ruler from time to time. On matters of Mohammedan religion and Malay custom, (with the exception of matters connected with the collection of taxes or tithes, which must be left within the control of the central legislature or the State Councils), each Ruler will have powers of legislating in his State. In doing so, he will use his Advisory Malay Council, which for these purposes will have a legislative character. Laws resulting from this system will come into effect subject to the Governor's assent. The agreement of the Governor is necessary, because he must ensure the necessary co-ordination between the States in these matters, and he must also ensure that laws on matters of Mohammedan religion and Malay custom do not come into conflict with the general law of the country. In this work the Governor will be assisted by an Advisory Council of the Malay Rulers together sitting with him.

9. This Advisory Council, which will not only have the important task of passing in review all legislation on matters of Mohammedan religion and Malay custom sent forward by the individual Rulers in their States, but will also discuss other subjects either at the instance of the Governor or at the instance of any of the Rulers with the Governor's agreement, will meet regularly, with due ceremony, under the Presidency of [POSSIBLY MISSING].

===== Page 202 =====
of the Governor, and will be regarded as a permanent body. It will not impair the right of direct access between the individual Rulers and the Governor. It will ensure that each of the Rulers plays his part not only in the affairs of his State, but in the future development of Malaya as a whole.

10. In other ways also, the dignity and prestige of the Rulers will be fully maintained. State Government property in general and assets (as well as State Government debts and liabilities) will be transferred to the Malayan Union Government, but this will not apply to the Residences and Estates of the Rulers themselves, the Residences and Estates of the principal members of the Rulers family, to any State buildings and lands which are used for purposes of the Mohammedan religion, or to property pertaining to the endowment of Mohammedan religious institutions. Furthermore, on the financial side, the personal allowances of each Ruler will be maintained and secured on a scale no less than that prevailing before the war and the principal member of the Ruler's family will be secured in their Ruling House Allowances on a scale no less than those before the war. The monies provided for this second purpose will be held by trustees and will be safeguarded both as to capital and interest.

11. The new Malayan Union will not break with tradition. It will preserve and strengthen the traditional and spiritual dignity of the Malay Rulers. It will safeguard the rights of the Malay people in matters of land reservation and in their special facilities for education and progress. But while preserving the dignity of the past, it will look towards the future. It will establish Malaya and its people on a firm basis of progress and self-reliance. His Majesty's Government are confident that the Rulers will appreciate the opportunity which is theirs of helping to create a new and bright future for their country.

===== Page 203 =====
REVISED MEMORANDUM ON FUTURE CONSTITUTION FOR MALAY PENINSULA

The War Cabinet has approved, for planning purposes, the policy of creating after the war a Malayan Union (as opposed to an extended Federation of Malay States) which will comprise all the Malay States in the Peninsula, together with the Settlements of Penang and Malacca. The Constitution of the Union will provide for a central authority (both Executive and Legislative) from which all other authorities in the Peninsula should derive their powers. (This postulate is inherent in the conception of a Union as opposed to that of a Federation).

2. Subject to this basic conception, it is considered that the nine Malay States and the Settlements of Penang and Malacca should be retained as geographical units with their present boundaries to deal with such local affairs as may be devolved upon them by the central authority.

3. One of the most important matters to settle is the position of the Malay Rulers under the new Constitution. The idea that there should be an Upper Chamber of Sultans has been examined, but it is not felt that this would be appropriate. The possibility has been rejected partly because of the difficulty of devising satisfactory relations between the Lower and Upper Chambers, partly because the Sultans do not possess the necessary qualifications to perform the functions of a Second Chamber in any real and effective manner, partly because a Second Chamber of Malay Sultans would be an inappropriate organ in the Government of a country of which important areas will be parts of the present British Colony of the Straits Settlements, and partly because it would be out of keeping with the proposal that Malayan Union citizenship should comprise not only Malays but people of every race who have made Malaya their homeland.

It is proposed instead that the Sultans collectively should form an Advisory Council to the Governor. The subjects with which

===== Page 204 =====
This Council would be concerned principally with questions of Mohammedan religion and Malay custom (in relation to which the special position of the Sultans has always been recognised), but other subjects would also be open for discussion in the Council either at the instance of the Governor or at the instance of any of the Sultans with the Governor's consent. The functions of the Council are further described in paragraph 8 beneath. It would meet regularly under the presidency of the Governor and would be regarded as a permanent body. Its meetings would be attended by all the ceremony necessary to maintain the personal dignity of the Sultans. It would not, however, impair the right of direct access between individual Sultans and the Governor. It is felt that the new position of the Sultans should be defined in the Constitution itself. When the time comes to negotiate the new Treaties this will be necessary to satisfy the Sultans, who will not be content to be told vaguely that "an appropriate position" will be allotted to them by the new Central Legislature.

4. Apart from the Governor, the three principal officers of Government will be the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General and the Financial Secretary. The position of the British Residents or Advisers in each of the States should be modified. Before the war, the status of these officers was higher than that of any other officials save the High Commissioner, but with the establishment of the Union Government their importance will diminish and they should be made subordinate to the Chief Secretary of the Union Government. It is proposed that these officers, as well as the officers at the head of the two Settlements, should be uniformly styled "Resident Commissioners".

5. It is proposed that Executive and Legislative Councils for the Malayan Union should be created with the following constitution.

The Executive Council should have 5 official and 5 unofficial

===== Page 205 =====
Unofficial members, in addition to the Governor. Of the official members, the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General, and the Financial Secretary should be ex officio, while the other two would be nominated by the Governor. The unofficial members would also be nominated by the Governor. A racial basis should not be prescribed for such nominations, but in the first instance, it would be desirable that there should be one European, one Malay, one Chinese, and one Indian unofficial member, the Governor being left to nominate the most suitable unofficial to fill the remaining vacancy regardless of race. Unofficial membership of the Executive Council would be confined to Malayan Union Citizens.

The Legislative Council should have, besides the Governor, 21 official and 21 unofficial members. Fourteen of the latter should represent areas on a population basis, and the remainder should represent important interests throughout the Union; there has hitherto been no experience of any system of elections in Malaya, and for an initial phase at any rate it would be desirable that the unofficial members should be nominated by the Governor who would be required to select suitable persons on the above representative basis as far as possible. Five of the official members would be the official members of the Executive Council and the remainder would be nominated by the Governor.

6. When Military Administration ceases and the new Civil Government is established in the Malay Peninsula, it is likely to be impracticable, even if it were desirable, to complete the formal instruments necessary to set up a Legislative Council immediately. To cover the interregnum between the end of the Military Administration and the setting up of a Legislative Council, the new constitution should specifically provide for the Governor alone to be responsible for legislation, and for the establishment of an Advisory Council to assist him in this task. The Governor would normally consult this Advisory Council before enacting legislation, but would not be bound to accept the Council's advice. The instrument should not specify the precise number of official and unofficial members, but the Governor should be instructed to guide

===== Page 206 =====
Himself as far as possible, when making appointments by the intended composition of the Legislative Council as set out in paragraph 5 above.

7. The next question to be considered is the future of the State and Settlement Councils. In the past, the Sultans were Presidents of the State Councils, but the Councils were largely composed of Malays, and made scant provision for any representation of non-Malay interests. In the new constitutional arrangements, it would be inappropriate that a Malay Sultan should preside and it will be desirable that the President of the State or Settlement Council of the future should be the Resident Commissioner. Exact membership cannot be defined in advance, but members should be appointed by the Governor after consulting the Resident Commissioner. As regards the nomination of unofficial Representatives, all practicable regard should be paid to the racial proportions of the settled population of each State and Settlement, but broader public interests should also govern selections.

The State and Settlement Councils should be empowered to legislate (a) on all matters which, in the opinion of the Governor in Council, are of a merely local or private nature in the State or Settlement and (b) on all subjects in respect of which power is delegated to them by law by the Legislative Council of the Malayan Union.

8. In each State side by side with the State Councils, there should be established Advisory Malay Councils to the Sultans, which should be presided over by the Sultan and whose members, subject to the Governor's approval, should be appointed by the Sultan.

The main functions of these Advisory Malay Councils would be in relation to matters affecting Mohammedan religion and Malay custom, but they would also advise the Sultan on other matters referred to them by the Resident Commissioner with the approval of the Governor. On matters of Mohammedan religion and Malay custom (with the exception of anything connected with the collection of taxes or tithes, which must be left strictly within the control of the Central Legislature or the State Councils), it is proposed that the Sultans should have powers of legislating in their individual States. In doing so, they would use their Advisory Malay Councils, which for these purposes would be virtually legislative.

===== Page 207 =====
Legislative bodies. Legislation resulting from this system would not, however, automatically and immediately become law, but would require the Governor's assent. The Governor would in no case grant or refuse his assent without consulting his own Advisory Council of Malay Sultans, though he would not be bound to accept their advice. It is felt that this proposal to leave legislative power on matters of Mohammedan religion and Malay customs in the hands of the Sultans individually and collectively (subject to the necessary checks as indicated above) should go a long way towards reconciling the Sultans to their new position, in that it would maintain their special status amongst their own Malay people in a field in which it has hitherto been always recognised. It is also felt that the proposal to refer legislation within this field to the Governor's Advisory Council of Sultans would lend reality to the deliberations of that body, which might otherwise be little more than a facade.

9. It is proposed that the organisation of the Courts should be as follows. It is suggested that there should be a separate High Court of the Malayan Union with a Chief Justice at its head. In addition to the Chief Justice, there should be judges of the High Court stationed at various suitable centres throughout the Peninsula. In accordance with previous practice and the dictates of economy, the Chief Justice and the Puisne Judges of the Supreme Court in Singapore should be declared ex officio judges in the High Court of the Malayan Union and vice versa. In practice, the Court of Appeal, whether sitting in the Union or in Singapore, would invariably be composed of the two Chief Justices and one Puisne Judge. There seems to be no reason for creating a separate Court of Appeal, which would involve the appointment of Appeal Judges. The new constitution should provide for Appeals to the Privy Council from the Court of Appeal of the Malayan Union.

10. In order that the future Malayan Union may become a reality, it is felt that, subject to the exceptions noted below, all State and Settlement properties should be transferred to the Union Government, which should assume full liability for State and Settlement debts. The Union would take over all revenues from the States and the Settlements, their cash, bank balances, securities,

===== Page 208 =====
etc., all State land, mines and minerals and all railways, ports and harbours (with the exception of the port and harbour properties vested in the Penang Harbour Board). The exception to this wholesale transfer of property relates to the residences and estates of the Sultans themselves, the residences and estates of the other members of the Ruling family (strictly defined), and any buildings and land used for purposes of Mohammedan religion, as well as property pertaining to the endowment of Mohammedan religious institutions. It is felt that the above properties should be excluded from transfer to Union ownership, on the grounds that they are closely bound up with the Sultans' personal prestige, and with the position (which it is proposed to preserve) of the individual Sultans as leaders of their Malay subjects in their States in matters of Mohammedan religion and Malay custom.

In making provision for the exemption of these properties from transfer to Union ownership, it is important to bear in mind that no commitment should be given to the Sultans which would prevent the Defence authorities from acquiring the necessary rights in property which they might require at any time for strategic purposes. Provided such commitments are not given, it is felt that this aspect of the matter need not be specifically mentioned in the new Constitution. The mere exemption from transfer to Union ownership does not place the property in question irrevocably beyond the control of the Service authorities. The new treaties with the individual Sultans will themselves give His Majesty the power to legislate in each State. It is important, in fact, to distinguish in this connection between exemption from transfer to Union ownership and exemption from His Majesty's jurisdiction. The latter is, of course, not proposed.

11. In order further to safeguard the personal position of the Sultans, it is felt that special provision should be made as regards their emoluments. These cannot actually be exempted from transfer to Union control (i.e., left to be provided out of State funds), since under the new Constitution the States will have only those revenues which they may receive or collect by the decision of the central Legislature of the Union. But it should nevertheless be ensured (a) that the Sultans' personal allowances are continued from year

===== Page 209 =====
To year on a scale at least as generous as that prevailing in any year before the Japanese occupation, (b) that the Sultans' immediate relatives and dependants should be provided for - as Ruling House Allowances - on a scale no less liberal than before the Japanese occupation. The monies provided for (b) should be held by trustees and should be carefully tied up as to capital and interest.

12. Finally, it is proposed that there should be express provision in the Constitution empowering the Courts to interpret it, and laying down that in case of conflict, Ordinances of the Malayan Union must prevail over enactments of State and Settlement Councils.

===== Page 210 =====
Partly because a Second Chamber of Malay Sultans would be a disapproving organ in the Fort of a country of which important areas will be parts of the present British Colony of the Straits Settlements, and partly because it would be out of keeping with the purpose that Malayan State citizenship should comprise, proper of every race who have made Malay their homeland.

Not only Malays but

===== Page 211 =====
REVISED MEMORANDUM ON FUTURE CONSTITUTION FOR MALAY PENINSULA

The War Cabinet has approved, for planning purposes, the policy of creating after the war a Malayan Union (as opposed to an extended Federation of Malay States). Accordingly, it is considered that the central legislature to be established on our return should constitute the supreme authority from which all other authorities in the Peninsula must derive their powers. This postulate is inherent in the conception of a Union as opposed to that of a Federation.

2. Subject to this basic conception, it is considered that the nine States and the Settlements of Penang and Malacca should be retained as geographical units with their present boundaries, to deal with such local affairs as may be devolved upon them by the central authority.

3. One of the most important matters to settle is the position of the Malay Rulers under the new Constitution. The idea that there should be an Upper Chamber of Sultans has been examined, but it is not felt that this would be appropriate. The idea has been rejected partly because of the difficulty of devising satisfactory relations between the Lower and Upper Chambers, and partly because the Sultans do not possess the necessary qualifications to perform the functions of a Second Chamber in any real and effective manner. It is proposed instead that the Sultans collectively should form an Advisory Council to the Governor. The subjects upon which this Council would deliberate would be principally questions of Mohammedan religion and Malay customs (in relation to which the special position of the Sultans has always been recognised), but other subjects would also be open for discussion in the Council either at the instance of the Governor or at the instance of any of the Sultans with the Governor's consent. The functions of the Council are further described in paragraph 8 beneath. It would meet regularly under the presidency of the Governor and would be regarded

===== Page 212 =====
Regarded as a permanent body, its meetings would be attended by all the ceremony necessary to maintain the prestige of the Sultans. It would not, however, impair the right of direct access between individual Sultans and the Governor. It is felt that the new position of the Sultans should be defined in the Constitution itself. When the time comes to negotiate the new Treaty, this will be necessary to satisfy the Sultans, who will not be content to be told that "an appropriate position" will be allotted to them by the new Central Legislature.

4. Apart from the Governor, the three principal officers of Government will be the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General, and the Financial Secretary. The position of the British Residents or Advisers in each of the States should be modified. Before the war, the status of these officers was higher than that of any other officials save the High Commissioner, but with the establishment of the Union Government, their importance will diminish, and they should be made subordinate to the Chief Secretary. It is proposed that these officers, as well as the officers at the head of the two Settlements, should be uniformly styled "Resident Commissioners."

5. It is proposed that Executive and Legislative Councils should be created with the following constitution. The Executive Council should have 5 official and 5 unofficial members, in addition to the Governor. Of the official members, the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General, and the Financial Secretary should be ex officio, while the other 2 would be nominated by the Governor. The unofficial members would also be nominated by the Governor. A racial basis should not be prescribed for such nominations, but in the first instance, there should probably be one European, one Malay, one Chinese, and one Indian unofficial member, the Governor being left to nominate the rest.

===== Page 213 =====
The most suitable unofficial member will fill the remaining vacancy. Unofficial membership of the Executive Council would be confined to Malayan Union Citizens. The Legislative Council should have, besides the Governor, 21 official and 21 unofficial members. Fourteen of the latter should be nominated to represent areas on a population basis, and the remainder to represent important interests throughout the Union. Five of the official members would be the official members of the Executive Council, and the remainder would be nominated by the Governor.

6. When Military Administration ceases and the new Civil Government is established in the Malay Peninsula, it will be impossible for that Government to set up a Legislative Council immediately. To cover the interregnum between the end of the Military Administration and the setting up of a Legislative Council, the new constitution should specifically provide for the Governor alone to be responsible for Legislation and for the establishment of an Advisory Council to assist him in this task. The Governor would normally consult this Advisory Council before enacting Legislation but would not be bound to accept the Council's advice. The Council should consist of an unspecified number of official and unofficial members, but the Governor should

7. The next question to be considered is the future of the States and Settlements Councils. In the past, the Sultans were Presidents of the State Councils; this practice should cease. The provision for any representation of non-Malay interests in the President of the State or Settlement Council of the future should be the Resident Commissioner. Exact constitutional arrangements would be inappropriate that a Malay Sultan should preside, and it will be desirable that the

===== Page 214 =====
Membership cannot be defined in advance, but members should be appointed by the Governor after consulting the Resident Commissioner. As regards the nomination of unofficial Representatives, some consideration should be paid to the racial population of each State and Settlement, but this should not be the only guide.

The State and Settlement Councils should be empowered to legislate (a) on all matters which, in the opinion of the Governor in Council, are of a merely local or private nature in the State or Settlement and (b) all subjects in respect of which power is delegated to them by law by the Legislative Council of the Union of Malaya.

8. Side by side with the State Councils there should be established for each State Advisory Councils to the Sultans, which should be presided over by the Sultan and whose members, subject to the Governor's approval, should be appointed by the Sultan.

The main functions of these Advisory Councils would be in relation to matters affecting Mohammedan religion and Malay custom, but they would also advise the Sultan on other matters referred to them by the Resident Commissioner with the approval of the Governor. On matters of Mohammedan religion and Malay custom (with the exception of anything connected with the collection of taxes or tithes, which must be left strictly within the control of the State Councils), it is proposed that the functions of the Advisory Councils should in fact be more than advisory. On these matters, it is proposed that the Sultan should legislate for his individual States. In doing so, they would use their Advisory Councils, which for these purposes would become legislative bodies. Legislation resulting from this system would not, however, immediately become law, but would be submitted to the Governor for his assent. The Governor would in no case grant or refuse his assent.

===== Page 215 =====
Assent without consulting his Advisory Council of Sultans, though he would not be bound to accept their advice. It is felt that this proposal to leave legislative power on matters of Mohammedan religion and Malay customs in the hands of the Sultans (subject to the necessary checks) should go a long way towards reconciling the Sultans to their new positions, in that it would maintain their special status in a field in which it has hitherto been always recognised. It is also felt that the proposal to refer legislation within this field to the Governor's Advisory Council of Sultans would lend reality to the deliberations of that body, which might otherwise be little more than a facade.

9. It is proposed that the organisation of the Court should be as follows. It is suggested that there should be a separate High Court of the Union of Malaya, with the Chief Justice at its head. In addition to the Chief Justice, there must be judges of the High Court stationed at various centres throughout the Peninsula. In accordance with previous practice, the Chief Justice and the Puisne Judges of the Supreme Court in Singapore should be declared ex-officio judges in the High Court of the Union of Malaya, and vice versa. In practice the Court of Appeal, whether sitting in the Union of Malaya or in Singapore, will invariably be composed of two Chief Justices and one Puisne Judge. There seems to be no reason for creating a separate Court of Appeal, which would involve the appointment of Appeal Judges. The new constitution should provide for Appeals from the Court of Appeal of the Union of Malaya to the Privy Council.

===== Page 216 =====
10. In order that the future Union of Malaysia may become a reality, it is felt that, subject to the exceptions noted below, all State and Settlement properties should be transferred to the Union Government, which should assume full liability for State and Settlement debts. The Union would take over all revenues from the States and the Settlements, their cash, bank balances, securities, etc., all State land, mines and minerals and all railways, ports and harbours (with the exception of the port and harbour property at Penang, Brai, and Butterworth which is vested in the Penang Harbour Board).

The exception to this wholesale transfer of property relates to the residences and estates of the Sultans themselves, the residences and estates of their immediate relatives and dependents, and any buildings and land which are used for purposes of the Mohammedan religion, as well as property pertaining to the endowment of Mohammedan religious institutions.

It is felt that the above properties should be excluded from transfer to Union ownership, on the grounds that they are closely bound up with the Sultans' personal prestige, and with the position of the individual Sultans as leaders in their States in matters of Mohammedan religion and Malay custom.

In making provision for the exemption of these properties from transfer to Union ownership, it is important to bear in mind that no commitment should be given to the Sultans which would prevent the Service authorities from taking control of property which they might require at some later date for strategic purposes. Provided such commitments are not given, it is felt that this aspect of the matter need not be specifically mentioned in the new Constitution. The mere exemption from transfer to Union ownership does not place the property in question irrevocably beyond the control of the Service authorities. The new treaties with the individual Sultans will themselves give His Majesty the power to legislate.

===== Page 217 =====
In these States, it is important, in fact, to distinguish between exemption from transfer to Union ownership and exemption from His Majesty's jurisdiction. The latter is, of course, not proposed.

11. In order further to safeguard the personal position of the Sultans, it is felt that special provision should be made regarding their emoluments. These cannot actually be exempted from transfer to Union control (i.e., left to be provided out of State funds), since under the new Constitution the States will have no revenues. But it should nevertheless be ensured (a) that the Sultans' personal allowances are continued from year to year on a scale at least as generous as that prevailing in any year before the Japanese occupation; (b) that the Sultans' immediate relatives and dependants should be provided for on a scale no less liberal than before the Japanese occupation. The monies provided for the latter purpose should be held by trustees and should be carefully tied up as to capital and interest.

12. Finally, it is felt that there should be express provision in the Constitution, empowering the Courts to interpret it, and laying down that in case of conflict, Ordinances of the Union of Malaya must prevail over enactments of State and Settlement Councils.

===== Page 218 =====
DRAFT AND RECORD COPY

REGISTERED No.
50823/6/45.

DATE.
21 June, 1945.

DRAFT

MR. Bourdillon

MR.

MR.

Dear Cator,

Very many thanks for your letter of the 13th of June, (reference 315) about property in the Malay States. The information you have given me is exactly the kind of thing we want, and I am sure it will be extremely helpful to us.

We are most grateful to you for the trouble you have taken.

Yours sincerely,

R.T.B

ENCLOSURES

FURTHER ACTION

To G.E. CATOR ESQ., C.M.G.
Malaya House,
57, Trafalgar Sq.,
W.C.2.

===== Page 219 =====
Dear Bourdillon,

The answer to the poser you put over the telephone is that, so far as I know, there is no land or property of which a Sultan ought to have sole personal control except royal residences, family property, and royal tombs and cemeteries, but my own first-hand knowledge is largely limited to Brunei and Perak, and does not extend to other States.

The governing factors are:

a) the clause in the treaties relating to the Mahommedan religion and Malay custom,
b) the fact that the Rayas form a caste all more or less distantly connected with the Sultan, so that it is not always easy to discern where the Sultan begins and the descendant of some long-dead Raja ends, and
c) that the Sultans are conveniently blind to the distinction between their official and personal status.

Under religion might come the control of land used for mosques, madrasahs, religious schools, and Moslem cemeteries.

Under custom might come anything that you can possibly imagine, for "adat" is not a body of fixed rules but is highly elastic. In fact, I think I will guarantee to produce "adat" for any course that anybody would wish to take on any subject.

In any agreement regarding the Mahommedan religion it should be stipulated that the rights do not extend to the collection of taxes or tithes. The question of "Zakat" (tithes) was constantly cropping up in Perak, and if the point had been conceded every Malay peasant would have paid double taxation, once to the Government and once to his spiritual guides, of whom the Sultan is the head.

One of the difficulties of dealing with royal finances (which is what, in the end, this question of control boils down to) is that in some States succession is not direct but oblique. The result is a) when the Ruler dies no one is legally responsible for the maintenance of his widow and children, and b) all the hangers-on of royalty for the time being make hay while the sun shines, knowing that when the present Ruler dies the plunder will go to a fresh gang.

===== Page 220 =====
The Ruler, therefore, unless he is a miser or impossibly strong-minded, has no possibility of saving a penny in his lifetime for the benefit of his family; and this produces complications.

My own suggestion would be to divide the royal emoluments into two parts: a) the Sultan's personal allowance, b) provision for his family. This would be held by trustees and carefully tied up as to capital and interest.

This method was adopted in Perak in the case of the Sultan's son, for whom he sought to make provision by giving him an appointment at the age of twelve. There is, of course, the virtual certainty that if there is money in the offing there will be plenty of people ready to lend on anticipation.

I hope this is more or less what you want, but if I have gone off the rails let me know and I will try again.

Yours sincerely,

H.T. Bourdillon, Esq.,
Colonial Office,
Downing Street, S.W.1.

===== Page 221 =====
NOTE OF A DISCUSSION WITH THE SECRETARY OF STATE ON WEDNESDAY, 9TH MAY, 1945.

Present: The Duke of Devonshire
Sir G. Gater
Mr. Gent
Mr. Paskin
Colonel Newbold (of the C.A.M.P.U).

1. The Secretary of State indicated that, on the whole, he approved the proposals for a Constitution for the future Malayan Union as being in accordance with the policy provisionally approved by the Cabinet. There were, however, certain matters on which he thought that further consideration was required.

2. In particular, the Secretary of State felt that the proposal that all State property should be transferred to the Union Government might well imperil the success of Sir Harold MacMichael's negotiations with the Sultans for new treaties under which they would surrender jurisdiction to H.M. He felt that the proposals as a whole would be more likely to be acceptable to the Sultans if, from the outset, they and the State Governments could be permitted to retain such of their property as will be required in connection with the exercise of the functions which it is intended to assign to them under the new Constitution. While the Secretary of State recognised the force of the considerations which had prompted this proposal (i.e. the desirability of as complete a break as possible with the pre-war set up of nine separate States, which is designed to focus attention on the new conception of a Malayan Union and to emphasise the intention that such local authorities as will remain in the States will derive their functions by delegation from the Central Authority of the Union), he felt that to transfer more

===== Page 222 =====
Of the State property to the Central Government than was absolutely necessary would result in creating an unnecessary obstacle (on top of all the inevitable obstacles) for Sir Harold MacMichael to surmount in the course of his negotiations with the Sultans.

3. The Secretary of State felt that the considerations to which he had drawn attention applied with particular force to those State properties in which the Sultans could be expected to take a strong personal interest (e.g., their official residences and religious buildings) and he directed that an attempt should now be made to prepare lists of such State properties as might be excluded from the general transfer to the Central Government of the Union.

4. For the same reason (i.e., the desirability of making Sir Harold MacMichael's task less difficult), the Secretary of State thought that further consideration should be given to other matters in which the Sultans may be expected to take a personal interest (e.g., some assurance of the continuance of their Civil Lists, and of their position in connection with the functions of the Advisory Councils - both the Council of Sultans and the Advisory Councils to be established in each State).

5. In the course of the discussion about the likely attitude of the Sultans to the proposals which will be submitted to them by Sir Harold MacMichael, Colonel Newbold expressed the view that they are more likely to be concerned about the functions and powers which it is proposed that they should retain, or with which they should be invested, than with the proposal to transfer State property to the Central Government (apart, of course, from the residences and religious institutions).

===== Page 223 =====
6. The Secretary of State also asked that the proposals for the composition of the Legislative Council should be worked out in greater detail than has already been done on pages 25 to 27 of the Memorandum, particularly as regards the proposed territorial "constituencies" and the procedure for appointing "representatives" of these constituencies.

7. The Secretary of State also felt that the proposals would be subject to less criticism in the world at large if it had been found possible to recommend that there should be an unofficial majority in the Legislative Council from the outset. He recognised the force of the considerations which had led to the rejection of this idea during the early years of the reconstruction period, but he felt that it would be desirable to make it quite clear that the proposed Constitution is purely transient and that it is the definite intention to liberalise it as soon as practicable and certainly within a very few years of the liberation of the country.

8. As regards Sir Harold MacMichael's desire that he should have authority to inform the Sultans that the immigration of Malays from the N.E.I. will be encouraged, as a counterpoise to the immigration of Chinese and Indians, the Secretary of State fully recognised the dangers of Sir Harold MacMichael being authorised to say anything to the Sultans which would give the Governments of India and China a handle to allege that discrimination was being exercised against their nationals.

9. As regards Sir Harold MacMichael's desire that he should be authorised to tell any Sultan who may show a disposition to be recalcitrant that

H.M.G.

===== Page 224 =====
H.M.G. are firmly resolved to carry their policy through, if necessary without the agreement of any particular Ruler. The Secretary of State stated that he is satisfied that it would be fruitless to attempt to get Cabinet authority for this proposal, at any rate at the present stage. The furthest that he felt it was possible to go, at the present stage, to meet Sir Harold MacMichael's request, was that (subject to further consideration of the matters referred to earlier in the discussion) he would be prepared, on his own responsibility, to accept the proposals in the Memorandum as representing the necessary detailed implications of the policy provisionally approved by the Cabinet.

10. As regards Sir Harold MacMichael's hope that it would be possible for him to take out with him a draft of an Order-in-Council embodying all these proposals, the Secretary of State felt that it was doubtful whether it would be possible to prepare such an Order in the time available, and that moreover a legal document of that character would not be a very suitable medium to show to the Sultans as an indication of the policy of H.M.G. It was felt that it would be preferable to embody these proposals in a reasonably brief Memorandum expressed in simple language which the Sultans could readily understand.

===== Page 225 =====
My dear Patrick,

May I thank you for your very full and useful note about our Malay States Constitutional problem, and I certainly appreciate the possible repercussions on our Malayan policy, vis-à-vis India. As you know, Mr. Amery is one of the Ministers on the Cabinet Committee which has our Malayan plans under their consideration.

Thank you very much for your offer to help us further with oral discussions, and I am sure this will be most useful as soon as we have studied carefully the urgent material you have given me.

Yours sincerely,

J.P. Patrick, Esq., C.S.I.

===== Page 226 =====
17th March, 1945.

SECRET.

Dear Gent,

I enclose the further note about your problems in the Malay States which I promised you. The 1944 correspondence to which the note refers included Mr. Amery's letter of 1st May to your Secretary of State and Kemp's letter of 27th June to Duncan.

The outcome of your policy in Malaya may have repercussions in India, and we should be very grateful if you could keep us in touch with developments.

If there is any further help that we could give, Sir Kenneth Fitze, Political Adviser to the Secretary of State, and I would be glad to come over and discuss.

G.E.J. Gent Esq., C.M.G., D.S.O., O.B.E., M.C.

===== Page 227 =====
The policy of H.M.G. is stated in Annex II to W.P.(44) 762. The immediate object is to seek new treaties with the Rulers which would give His Majesty a sufficient measure of jurisdiction to enable him to legislate for the States under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act. The ultimate intention is to create a Malayan Union, under a Governor with an Executive and a Legislative Council, which would include both the British Settlements and the Malay States. The Colonial Office now asks advice on how to ensure that H.M.G.'s policy is not frustrated by the possible recalcitrance of individual Rulers.

There is no precise parallel in India to the policy which H.M.G. proposes to apply to the Malayan Rulers. It is the case that in very small states, e.g., in Western India, the Crown has in the past absorbed pretty full jurisdiction: and many Rulers have been required to cede jurisdiction over Railway lands, cantonment areas, and the like, within State territory. But broadly speaking, there is no precedent in India (subject to the very doubtful one of the Chaube Jagirs, on which a note is attached as Appendix I) for the permanent removal of general jurisdiction from a Ruler's dynasty, in the face of the Ruler's opposition, since the policy of annexation was abandoned in 1858. The jurisdiction ceded by Rulers over Railway lands and in cantonment areas has been exercised by the Crown Representative, in succession since the Act of 1935 to the Governor-General in Council, under the India Foreign Jurisdiction Order in Council, 1937. The same Order has been used to express the powers of administration assumed by the Crown in certain very small States without having obtained these by a formal cession from the Rulers. When however, under the Act of 1935 it was proposed to constitute a Federation of India with a responsible government and legislature, the Rulers were invited to accede to the Federation with such limitations on the direct exercise of Federal authority in their territories as might be mutually agreed with the Crown: there was no question of compelling any Ruler to federate; and from the very small States such as those mentioned above which did not possess the powers to carry out the obligations of federation, the offer to federate was withheld.

Some parallel to H.M.G.'s policy for Malaya may be found in the agreements negotiated in 1883, 1899, and 1903 with the Khan of Kalat where, by areas of his territory known as the Quetta Niabat, the Nushki District and Niabat, and the Niabat of Nasirabad, were leased in perpetuity to form a considerable part of the existing Chief Commissioner's Province of British Baluchistan for quit-rents amounting to something over Rs. 1½ lakhs. In this portion of British Baluchistan, administration is expressed to be under the Foreign Jurisdiction Order in Council. But there is at present no legislature in this Province which is administered personally by the Chief Commissioner.

The case of Berar affords a somewhat nearer parallel. Berar came under British administration in 1853, when it was assigned "temporarily" to the E.I. Company to meet certain financial obligations of the Nizam of Hyderabad. In 1902 a perpetual lease was negotiated with the Nizam, on payment of Rs. 25 lakhs a year. When the Government of India Act of 1935 was passed, it was necessary to provide for Berar (which had been administered directly — i.e., not under foreign jurisdiction — as part of the Central Provinces) passing under the government of an Autonomous Province, and a new Agreement was negotiated with the Nizam: this involved various concessions. A dynastic title incorporating Berar was granted him, the annual payment of Rs. 25 lakhs was confirmed, certain rights in regard to the flying of his flag, grant by him of honours, holding of Durbars, etc., were accorded; he is consulted before a Governor is appointed and has the right to maintain an agent at the provincial capital. Further if the

===== Page 228 =====
Government of India Act of 1935 is amended in a manner inconsistent with the Agreement, the Nizam may at six months' notice terminate its continuance.

The Colonial Office have already been warned (correspondence in May/June 1944) of the difficulties that arise if—as in the case of Berar—the cession by the Ruler of jurisdiction is not sufficiently full to avoid the necessity of securing a fresh agreement from him whenever constitutional changes are made in the government of the territory involved. The other important point to be observed is that the Berar agreements were obtained by negotiation and concessions. There was no open resistance on the part of the Khan of Kalat or the Nizam of Hyderabad to the terms of the agreements which they concluded ceding jurisdiction in portions of their territories. Nor have Rulers resisted the cession without consideration of jurisdiction over Railway lands or lands required for military cantonments. If resistance had been offered, despite the indirect advantage to be obtained from the cession of jurisdiction desired, it would have no doubt been necessary to "advise" the Ruler in the name of the Paramount Power to execute the necessary agreement. The right of the Paramount Power to override opposition from the Ruler of a State was asserted in a letter from Lord Reading in 1926 to the Nizam of Hyderabad. Some general propositions extracted from that letter are attached as Appendix III.

In the exercise of the functions of Paramountcy it has not been uncommon for a Ruler to be deprived of his Ruling Powers (as a result, e.g., of gross misgovernment), but such action by the Paramount Power is confined to an individual Ruler and does not extend to the dynasty. A note is attached (Appendix III) which shows inter alia the limits which the Paramount Power has set upon the exercise of its rights of interference in a Ruler's jurisdiction. When a Ruler is deprived of his powers, the Crown Representative acts by virtue of the general supremacy and paramount authority of the Crown, and substitutes for the Ruler, as an act of State, a person (probably a British official) who is for the time being the supreme judicial and administrative authority in the State. Reforms of an essential nature may be introduced, but no major constitutional changes are made. The same applies during a Minority Administration. It will thus be seen that the practice of Paramountcy in India gives little help in the present situation.

The only useful advice one can give to the Colonial Office is:

(1) It would be best to cajole, or bribe, the Rulers (taking the larger first) than attempt to coerce them.

(2) If coercion is inevitable, an arbitrary Act of State, supported by troops if necessary, is the only thing. Presumably a Proclamation would be issued showing the grounds on which action was being taken ("efficiency and democratic progress"). This would in effect mean unilateral denunciation of treaty provisions such as Article 3 of the 1923 Kedah Agreement; some publicity and perhaps parliamentary criticism might be anticipated.

===== Page 229 =====
The CHAUBE JAGIRS are five small contiguous estates, with a total area of 142 square miles, a population of 25,000, and revenue of Rs. 96,000 (about £7,200). The Jagirdars inherited grants from their ancestors, which the British Government confirmed to them and their descendants in the possession of their villages in perpetuity. They conducted independent administrations which, owing to misgovernment and poverty, fell far below modern standards. They resisted efforts to group them voluntarily in a cooperative scheme of administration, and in 1941 the Secretary of State approved a proposal to deprive all five of their jurisdiction and set up a joint administration on a permanent footing. It has not yet been decided whether this case has signalized a new departure in political practice. The joint administration is run in the name of the Jagirdars, and might be described merely as the operation of formal "advice" from the Paramount Power. But it is of some significance that the intention is to deprive the jagirdars' dynasties of jurisdiction. The places are, however, so small that this "Act of State," even if properly so described, is unlikely to attract attention. It might, in fact, be said that if a ruler is small enough, it is safe to bully him.

===== Page 230 =====
APPENDIX II

Hyderabad case, 1926

From the letter of His Excellency Lord Reading to His Exalted Highness the Nizam the following general propositions may be extracted:

"The Sovereignty of the British Crown is supreme in India, and therefore no Ruler of an Indian State can justifiably claim to negotiate with the British Government on an equal footing. Its supremacy is not based only upon treaties and engagements, but exists independently of them and, quite apart from its prerogative in matters relating to foreign powers and policies, it is the right and duty of the British Government, while scrupulously respecting all treaties and engagements with the Indian States, to preserve peace and good order throughout India.

"The right of the British Government to intervene in the internal affairs of Indian States is another instance of the consequences necessarily involved in the supremacy of the British Crown. The British Government have indeed shown again and again that they have no desire to exercise this right without grave reason. But the internal, no less than the external, security which the Ruling Princes enjoy is due ultimately to the protecting power of the British Government, and where Imperial interests are concerned, or the general welfare of the people of a State is seriously and grievously affected by the action of its Government, it is with the Paramount Power that the ultimate responsibility of taking remedial action, if necessary, must lie. The varying degrees of internal sovereignty which the Rulers enjoy are all subject to the due exercise by the Paramount Power of this responsibility.

"It is the right and privilege of the Paramount Power to decide all disputes that may arise between States, or between one of the States and itself, and even though a Court of Arbitration may be appointed in certain cases, its function is merely to offer independent advice to the Government of India, with whom the decision rests."

===== Page 231 =====
Appendix II

British Responsibilities to the Indian Princes

In Chapter 9, Part I, Vol. I of the Indian Statutory Commission's Report is quoted the following passage from the Montagu-Chelmsford Report:

"In spite of the varieties and complexities of treaties, engagements and sanads, the general position as regards the rights and obligations of the Native States can be summed up in a few words. The States are guaranteed security from without; the paramount power acts for them in relation to foreign powers and other States, and it intervenes when the internal peace of their territories is seriously threatened. On the other hand, the States' relations to foreign powers are those of the paramount power; they share the obligation for the common defence; and they are under a general responsibility for the good government and welfare of their territories."

2. The formal basis for British responsibilities is primarily the Corpus of Treaties, Engagements and Sanads. Only with some 40 States were Instruments in the form of Treaties actually concluded; but most States have agreements of a formal character or Sanads. They all involve acceptance by the British Government of responsibility for the external relations of the States and for their external and internal defence. But the relationship so established varied in accordance with the circumstances of the time when the individual engagements were made. The leading features of the three main historical periods of treaty-making are briefly described in Annexure 1 to this note.

3. Interpretation of British Responsibilities in the light of changing conditions. In a Despatch in 1917 the Secretary of State for India, Sir Austen Chamberlain, wrote:

"In the scrupulous maintenance of our Treaty Obligations nothing less than the honour of the Sovereign is involved and no Government can seek to belittle them. The relations of Government with the Chiefs are, however, necessarily subject to variation, and the literal fulfilment of an obligation may become impossible, either through change in essential circumstances, or by the mere passage of time. Again many of the Treaties were concluded before the Crown stood forth - in Lord Canning's phrase - the unquestioned Ruler and Paramount Power in all India; and, since that event, considerations of the general good of the Indian body politic have necessarily become a new factor in their interpretation. While they remain unrepealed in the letter and binding in the spirit, a constant development of constitutional doctrine is in process. But of that process the superintendence, direction and control must remain in the hands of the Paramount Power".

"Sanad" may be translated as a diploma, patent, or deed of grant by a Sovereign of an office, privilege, or right.

===== Page 232 =====
A careful analysis of the only actual treaties with Indian States (some 40 in number as stated in para. 1) was made by the Government of India in a note attached to a Despatch of 1930. Though too lengthy for reproduction as an annexure to this note, this analysis can be readily made available for perusal if desired. It shows that only half these treaties had assurances of "absolutism", and that there is good cause for interpreting even these assurances at less than their face value. In fact, it may be said that the responsibility of the British Government for the protection of the Indian States has involved, in the process of time and by the exercise of paramount power, a series of encroachments on the internal sovereignty of the Rulers, which it was originally responsible for maintaining. The Canning Sanads of 1862 (see para. 5 above) expressed the "desire of the Queen Empress that the governments of the Sanad-holders should be perpetuated", but it is a natural corollary that "nothing which is inherently capable of survival should be artificially perpetuated," (the latter quotation is from a communique issued by the Government Representative on the 16th April, 1943, in connection with the Western India Attachment scheme).

4. Occasions of Intervention and extent to which above definitions of British Responsibilities are accepted by Indian Rulers. An endeavour to list the encroachments on the internal affairs of States was made by the Government of India in the same Despatch of 1930. The "occasions of intervention" as they were then described are detailed in Annexure 2 to this note. Some of these "occasions of intervention" are obviously acceptable to Rulers, some indeed are embodied in agreements with Rulers. But in regard to many of them (e.g., intervention to improve the administration) there has been much controversy. In fact, the doctrine of Paramountcy as defined in Sir Austen Chamberlain's Despatch (para. 7 above) has never been accepted by the Princes as a whole. Sir Leslie Scott and other counsel were briefed by a body of them to represent to the Indian States Enquiry Committee in 1928-9 (the Butler Committee) that their relationship with the Crown is contractual in a sense and to an extent which precludes either party from modifying it except with full and willing acquiescence of the other. They contended that the Rulers continue to be sovereign and independent in their internal affairs except to the extent to which they have expressly surrendered any portion of that sovereignty. The Butler Committee did not accept this contention, its conclusion being that the relationship between the Crown and the States is sui generis.

"We have endeavoured, as others before us, to find some formula which will cover the exercise of paramountcy, and we have failed, as others before us have failed, to do so. The reason for such failure is not far to seek. Conditions alter rapidly in a changing world, Imperial necessity and new conditions may at any time raise unexpected situations. Paramountcy must remain paramount; it must fulfil its obligations, defining or adopting itself according to the shifting necessities of the time and the progressive development of the States. Nor need the States take alarm at this conclusion. Through paramountcy and paramountcy alone have grown up and flourished those strong benign relations between the Crown and the Princes on which at all times the States rely. On paramountcy and paramountcy alone can the States rely for their preservation through the generations that are to come. Through paramountcy is pushed aside the danger of destruction or annexation," (para. 47 of Butler Committee Report).

===== Page 233 =====
5. Individual Obligations to States. This note does not deal with the various specific obligations owed by the Crown to individual States, which might be said to come under the head of British Responsibilities. Many of these were considered in detail by the Indian States (Financial) Enquiry Committee (the Davidson Committee) in 1932, with a view to their absorption in the scheme of Federation. They include rights in respect of Salt, Posts and Telegraphs, Customs in a few cases, and currency claimed on the basis of written engagements or usage against a regime otherwise applicable by law in British India and by agreement with the State to India as a whole.

Obviously the Crown is responsible for ensuring that the Princes are enabled to negotiate a fair bargain in respect of these rights as a condition of inclusion in any all-India federation, and in fact they formed one of the main subjects of the Federal discussions with the Princes up to the outbreak of War.

There are also specific undertakings to keep "subsidiary forces" in certain States (Hyderabad, Cochin, etc.) which in many instances have either lapsed or been honoured in the breach. They may be said to fall under the general responsibility for protection and it is pertinent to observe that in several important cases (notably Hyderabad and Baroda) the assurance of protection and the resources for maintaining the subsidiary protective forces were dependent upon cessions by the States concerned of great tracts of territory which thus became embodied in British India. Hyderabad has gone so far as to suggest that any withdrawal of the assurances would involve the return of these territories.

===== Page 234 =====
The Treaty Making Periods

Up to the French Withdrawal. From 1730 (Treaty with Sawantwadi for protection against piracy, offensive and defensive) up to 1813, agreements concluded with some 48 States (mainly along fringes of the Peninsula in the portion of India where we were in contact with the Maharatta Power) were mainly of the character appropriate to engagements between equal contracting parties for common ends.

The Subordinate Isolation Period. Between 1814 to 1857 relations with the majority of the States were established as British power extended, and the tone of the language of engagements noticeably changed; admissions of British supremacy and professions of attachment and fidelity were often included. Though in and about 1818 a group of treaties were concluded, mainly by Lord Lake, with States in Rajputana and Central India such as Udaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, and Bhopal, which contained a clause recognising the Ruler as sovereign and promising that British jurisdiction should never be extended to his territories.

The Post-Mutiny Period. A new conception of British responsibilities was inaugurated by Lord Canning. In 1860 he laid down two principles: (1) that the integrity of States should be preserved by perpetuating the Rule of the Princes, (2) that flagrant mis-government must be prevented or arrested by timely intervention. In connection with (1), he issued a series of Sanads in 1862 guaranteeing the recognition of heirs adopted by Rulers without natural heirs.

Queen Victoria's Proclamation of 1858. It was in this period that the Queen-Empress issued the Proclamation to which the utmost importance is attached by the Princes:

"We hereby announce to the Native Princes of India that all Treaties and Engagements made with them by or under the authority of the Honourable East India Company are by Us accepted and will be scrupulously observed; and We look for the like observance on their part. We desire no extension of the territorial possessions, and while We admit no aggression upon Our dominions or Our rights to be attempted with impunity, We shall sanction no encroachment on those of others. We shall respect the rights, dignity, and honour of Native Princes as Our own; and We desire that they as well as Our own subjects shall enjoy that prosperity and that social advancement which can only be secured by internal peace and good government."

The essential features of this pronouncement have been repeated in subsequent Royal Proclamation (though not by the present Monarch or his Predecessor).

===== Page 235 =====
These were stated by the Government of India to be for the following purposes: to check maladministration and expedite reforms (the extent of legitimate intervention is of course very controversial ground), to regulate disputed successions, to remove Rulers guilty of criminal or flagrantly immoral conduct unconnected with their ruling power, to supervise minority Regency administrations and training of minor Rulers, to assist Rulers against rebellion, to prevent dismemberment of States, to settle boundary and interstatal disputes, to control arrangements for defence and security (which may include e.g. limitation of armaments, provision of expert advice, location of British cantonments, passage of British troops, location and maintenance of strategic railways and other communications, control of wireless, telephones, aviation developments, exclusion of undesirable foreign influences, jurisdiction over Indian Army personnel, arrangements for recruitment to Imperial forces, etc.), to perform functions outside the competence of small States (e.g. judicial, financial, commercial arrangements), to administer all-India subjects such as Ports and Communications, to fulfil obligations arising out of the Paramount Power's control of external relations (e.g. jurisdiction over foreigners, enforcement of international obligations), to restrict the employment of Europeans and Government pensioners, to protect persons holding authoritative British guarantees.

===== Page 236 =====
11: Boundillon

I have no observation to make on the "Note on proposals for future Indian Constitution" or on Appendix A thru 12.

As regards Appendix B, however, I think that the words in brackets at the end of paragraph I should read as follows:

"(in which the Constitution must retain a measure of independence, and the residual power is vested in a central body)."

16/3/45 / A. D.

===== Page 237 =====
Kensington 8131/42
CAMPU (SEAC)
c/o The War Office,
38 Hyde Park Gate,
S. W. 7.

16th March, 1945.

XMH reference TS/13/CA(MPU)

My dear Bourdillon,

I should be grateful if when the Note that is going up with my Memorandum is typed you could let us have two copies.

Yours sincerely,

H.T. Bourdillon, Esq.,
Colonial Office
S. W. 1.

===== Page 238 =====
Mr. Duncan,

I suggest an interim reply as in the draft herewith. What Mr. Patrick sent me was only his immediate first recollection of Indian States precedents, and you will remember he promised to go carefully into it and let us have a full letter, which I expect at any moment now.

14.3.45.

Copyright Defect.

Then deleted "Bt."

But please check this.

14/3/45 A.O.

Mr. Duncan,

We have checked, but I am afraid our work of 6. date here is who is 1942.


===== Page 239 =====
Many thanks for your letter of the 12th March about our talk on the subject of the Malay Rulers.

After we had seen you, Gent and I got into touch with the India Office, and they have given us some preliminary information which rather bears out your doubt as to whether we can look for much help from any Indian States experience. However, they have promised to go closely into it and to let us have a full letter very soon. When it comes to us, and if it throws any light on our problem in Malaya, I will send you a copy with any comments which I have from the Malayan point of view.

THE RIGHT HONOURABLE,
SIR DONALD SOMERVELL, O.B.E., K.C.

===== Page 240 =====
March, 1945.

DRAFT.

I am very grateful to you for your letter of the 12th March about our talk on the subject of the Malay Rulers.

The Rt. Hon. Sir Donald Somervell, Bt., O.B.E., K.C.
Attorney General
Royal Courts of Justice,
Strand,
W.C.2.

After we had seen you, Gent and I got into touch with the India Office, and they have given us some preliminary information which rather bears out your doubt as to whether we can look for much help from any Indian States' experience.

However, they have promised to go closer into it and to let us have a full letter very soon. When it comes to us, and if it throws any light on our problem in Malaya, I will venture to send you a copy with

===== Page 241 =====
with any comments which I have from the Malayan point of view.

Yours,

Sd
Harold Duncan

===== Page 242 =====
ROYAL COURTS OF JUSTICE,
LONDON.
12th March, 1945.

B Jim Duncan

I felt after our talk the other morning that my suggestions had not been particularly helpful or appropriate. I rather doubt whether much help can be got from the Indian States analogy, though it might be worth seeing whether someone who deals with them can assist. I think obviously if one or more Sovereigns take a strong line against the proposals the position is a difficult one. All that can be said is, that most of the States have agreed to take our advice and be guided by us.

===== Page 243 =====
and we feel that these are the right lines on which the States should go.

H. H. Duncan Esq.,
Legal Adviser,
Dominions Office,
Downing Street,
SW1.

CO 273/675/11

===== Page 244 =====
NOTE ON PROPOSALS FOR FUTURE MALAYAN CONSTITUTION

The War Cabinet has approved, for planning purposes, the policy of establishing after the war a Malayan Union which will consist of the nine Malay States and the Settlements of Penang and Malacca, and that this shall be achieved by the negotiation of fresh Agreements with the Rulers which shall cede such jurisdiction to His Majesty as will enable him to legislate for their territories under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act. Attached to this note, as Appendix A, is a memorandum prepared in consultation between the Colonial Office and the Malayan Planning Unit, which contains detailed proposals for the framing of the post-war Malayan Constitution and which deals with the practical application of the policy approved by the War Cabinet. It is felt that each of the proposals contained in the memorandum is implicit in the policy itself and is inherent in the very idea of a Malayan Union (as opposed to an extended Federation of Malay States).

For convenience, a brief summary of the memorandum is also attached to this note, as Appendix B.

2. The memorandum has been discussed in draft with Sir Harold MacMichael, and in consultation with him the following points have emerged, which may not be suitable for inclusion in the memorandum itself, but which it is nevertheless desirable to bring to the attention of the Secretary of State.

3. The cession of jurisdiction by each Ruler to His Majesty is accepted as a necessary step, but it is one which is capable of being misrepresented by ignorant, and still more by mischievous, people as a wanton breach of faith and an act of naked imperialism. If the negotiations

===== Page 245 =====
Negotiations are allowed to become "bogged" by argument and counter-argument; the chances diminish of our policy being represented in the right light from the outset, and the opportunities for misrepresentation will increase. This cardinal consideration leads to several conclusions.

4. The timing of the negotiations with the Malay Rulers is of the utmost importance. Missing opportunities through inadequate forethought or insufficient boldness of outlook, leading inevitably to uncertainty of touch and consequent hesitation, would not only jeopardize the negotiations themselves but would have other ill-effects which might be very far-reaching. Consequently, the work of elaborating the proposed new Constitution and drafting the necessary Instruments should be achieved as rapidly as possible. Once the present draft memorandum has been approved by the Secretary of State, with such alterations as he desires to make, the drafting of an Order in Council establishing the new Constitution should be begun immediately.

5. The actual Treaties with the Rulers will, of course, be very short, and will merely enshrine the cession of jurisdiction to His Majesty. They will not go into the consequential details of what His Majesty will do with the jurisdiction when acquired. Nevertheless, these consequences will be of the greatest interest to the Malay Rulers, and it may be assumed that they will fundamentally affect their willingness to sign the Treaties. While there is room for argument as to whether the actual draft Order in Council should be shown to them or not, it is important that we should be able to explain our proposals to them in a clear, comprehensive and convincing manner (and in a Malay language version).

6. Equally important, if we are to attain our objective of a smooth and rapid settlement, will be the method and procedure of handling individual Rulers both before and during the negotiations. It has been agreed

===== Page 246 =====
With S.A.C., S.E.A., the Military authorities shall not be involved in the negotiations, which are to be left to Sir Harold MacMichael. Nevertheless, it is essential that the Military authorities should be thoroughly acquainted with the situation and should avoid any action which may subsequently embarrass Sir Harold's task. In particular, they should not formally recognize any claimant in any of the nine States as being the legitimate Ruler of that State, even if he has held such a position uninterruptedly since before the Japanese occupation. This will mean considerable vigilance, since claimants may be expected to try and establish their position at the earliest possible moment and by all possible means. It will no doubt be necessary for the Military authorities to use the de facto authority of this or that Malay personage in each area in order to achieve their essential objectives of maintenance of security, prevention of disease and unrest, distribution of supplies, etc.; but it is essential that none of the Rulers should have been placed by the Military in a securely established position by the time when Sir Harold arrives in Malaya. In the first place, a recognized Malay Ruler who refused to sign a new Treaty might have to be deposed (an extremely inconvenient course, to say the least); and in the second place, if any of the Rulers feel that the ground is firm under their feet, they will unquestionably be more likely to adopt a non-cooperative, obstructive, and non-possumus attitude. They must realize that for their reinstatement their willingness to fall in with the policy of H.M.G. will be an indispensable condition. This does not mean, of course, that H.M.G. will be prepared to recognize as a Ruler of any of the States whoever is "prepared to sign on the dotted line." Such a course might mean the acceptance in some or all cases of the most worthless candidate and this again would open the door to reasonable criticism and be, indeed, a poor beginning to the history of the new Malaya. In the event

===== Page 247 =====
Event of an otherwise worthy claimant being unwilling to follow the accepted policy of H.M.G., great efforts would doubtless be made to persuade him before drastic steps were taken. But it must be recognised that in the last resort a "potential" Ruler who remained adamant might have to be displaced in favour of the best alternative candidate; and no Ruler should therefore be officially recognised before the negotiations are concluded.

7. For the rest, the Military authorities can be of great assistance to Sir Harold when he starts his work. For the reasons already given, there should be no unduly protracted delay in his arrival, after the liberation of the Peninsula. On the other hand, it would be a mistake if he were to appear on the scene immediately. There should be a brief period of, say, one month, during which the Military Administration would have time to assess the position in each of the States. They could then advise Sir Harold, on his arrival, as to the "candidate" in each State whose claims and conduct entitle him in their view to be the chosen instrument for the negotiations and the local throne. In many cases, the choice would probably be obvious. Sir Harold would then pursue his negotiations, proceeding in each case according to the established local custom. (The customs of the various States are being examined, and he will be provided with the facts before his departure). Thus, in some States it may be necessary for the new Treaty to be signed by certain of the State Chiefs as well as by the Ruler himself. The Ruler must be recognised before he actually signs the Treaty, since the signature of the State Ruler is necessary; but he should be firmly committed to sign (perhaps by initialling a draft after obtaining whatever approval of Chiefs is required by the custom of his State) before recognition takes place.

8. Then again, if the negotiations are to result in that speedy settlement at which we should aim, it will be important that Sir Harold MacMichael should have plenipotentiary powers.

===== Page 248 =====
Powers to negotiate on behalf of H.M.G. so that, having worked the Rulers (or "potential" Rulers) up to the point where they are ready to sign, he will be able to clinch the business then and there. If at that point, or at an earlier stage in the proceedings, he has to take refuge in expressions of uncertainty or doubt on issues of vital moment, and to refer home various points raised, this will throw open the door to conditions, qualifications, and second thoughts on the part of the Rulers, as a result of which the opportunity of any (and certainly of a rapid) settlement may be lost.

9. Finally, Sir Harold has represented that his task will be greatly eased if he is able to say something reassuring to the Malays regarding the degree of support to be accorded to their own position vis-à-vis the Chinese. It is true that under the proposals for Malayan Union citizenship, every Malay will automatically achieve citizenship, while only a proportion of Chinese will do so. This is an argument which can be legitimately used to show that the Malays will not be deserted by H.M.G. under the new policy, although our plans embody a belated recognition and regularising of the reasonable rights of those non-Malays who have definitely chosen to make their homes in Malaya, and those plans would in fact go far to safeguard the Malay position in its political aspects to a greater extent than could be said of our policy in the past. The full strength of this argument, however, may not be apparent to those with whom it will be used, and Sir Harold hopes that it may be backed up by others.

10. For instance, it is assumed that he will have every warrant for promising that particular attention will be given to the education of Malays and their training in the field of local government; also that the policy of land reservations for the needs of the Malays will be maintained. He further suggests that it would be both justifiable

===== Page 249 =====
Justifiable and helpful if he could point to a forward policy of encouraging, or at least facilitating, the immigration of Malays from the Netherlands East Indies as a counterpoise to the immigration of Chinese and Indians. The Colonial Office is already in touch with the Foreign Office, with a view to an approach being made to the Dutch Government on this very point. If the Dutch response is favourable, it may be possible to go a long way towards meeting this point; though the need of avoiding any overt discrimination against Chinese and Indians will, it is fully recognised, have to be carefully watched.

11. Above all the question must be faced of the course to be followed if the Rulers, or any of them, flatly decline to sign new Treaties. For reasons suggested in paragraph 6 above it will not be practicable simply to refuse recognition of the recalcitrant party or parties and select more pliable instruments. It is to be assumed, on the other hand, that H.M.G. will not on this account jettison their policy in respect either of those States which refuse assent to it, or, in desperation, of all. What, then, are the ultimate sanctions applicable? It may be impossible at this stage to formulate procedure, step by step, with precision and exactitude, but for purpose of negotiation, it is necessary to success (and particularly so in dealing with an Eastern people) that the broad lines to be followed in such an eventuality should be known both to Sir Harold who must be sure of his ground, and to the several Rulers and Chiefs who must be left in no doubt as to H.M.G.'s definite intention. If once it is clear beyond any doubt that the policy decided upon will be carried out, and doubt is at the same time removed as to the way in which this can and will be done, the issue is made a clear cut one and the chances of protracted obstruction are minimised.

12. H.M.G.'s decision on future policy for Malaya offers a bright hope for the efficiency, security and the promotion of self-government in that country, and it offers a safeguard for the political future of the Malays themselves since they will

===== Page 250 =====
be the most numerous element in the citizenship. It is therefore imperative that a satisfactory answer should be found for the question of ultimate sanctions as, if left unsolved, it may wreck the possibility of achieving that policy.

13. The sanctions which it is possible to consider appear to be the following:

(a) annexation of any State whose ruler refuses to cede jurisdiction;

(b) refusal to recognise as Ruler any claimant who refuses to do so and the acceptance and recognition of the next best on the list of claimants who will agree to fall in with H.M.G's policy.

Of these the first course can be expected to create severe local reactions amongst the Malays throughout the Peninsula, and to be adversely criticised by world opinion. The second would expose us to criticism inside and outside Malaya, though its degree might depend upon the extent to which the chosen ruler was merely a worthless puppet. This course might not be a complete solution if in any State there were no possible Malay candidate willing to accept our terms.

14. It is clear from a consideration of the matter of sanctions, that difficult decisions will remain to be taken if we fail to secure the agreement of each Ruler. It is therefore of the first importance to strengthen Sir Harold MacMichael's position by all possible means in order to secure their agreement; with this object it will be essential that he should be able to express H.M.G's resolve to carry their policy through for Malaya, if necessary without the agreement of any particular Ruler. If in fact any Ruler does refuse agreement, the exact procedure H.M.G. will adopt in order to enforce their policy can probably not be predicted at this stage, and the least objectionable course may only become clear in the light of the actual circumstances. It would not be essential that

Sir Harold

===== Page 251 =====
Sir Harold MacMichael should be able to state definitely to any Ruler what the precise course H.M.G. would adopt if he were to insist on withholding agreement. Sir Harold would find it enough to be able to say with confidence that the policy would certainly be enforced and that it would be H.M.G.'s affair to decide what steps to take for the purpose.

15. To sum up, it is imperative that the negotiations which Sir Harold will have to undertake shall proceed rapidly to a successful conclusion, and with this end in view, the Secretary of State is asked to approve the following points:

(a) That the work of elaborating the new Malayan Constitution and drafting the necessary Instruments shall be set on foot immediately.

(b) That the British Military authorities, on their arrival in Malaya, should be warned of the importance of exercising great caution in their dealings with any claimants to the throne in any of the nine States and of refusing to recognise any such claimant as the de jure authority in the State in question.

(c) That Sir Harold, whose arrival in Malaya should be timed to take place about one month after that of the Military authorities (subject to the progress of operations), should be authorised to open negotiations with each selected "candidate" on the basis that willingness to fall in with the policy of H.M.G. will be an indispensable condition of de jure recognition as Ruler.

(d) That Sir Harold should be granted plenipotentiary powers to bring negotiations to a conclusion on behalf of H.M.G.

(e) That he will be authorised to reassure the Malays regarding the maintenance of their special position, by promising that particular attention will be given to their education and their training in the field of local government, by undertaking that the policy of land

===== Page 252 =====
Land reservations for the needs of the Malays will be maintained, and by pointing (if possible) to a forward policy of encouraging, or at least facilitating, the immigration of Malays from the Netherlands East Indies as a counterpoise to the immigration of Chinese and Indians.

(f) That he will be placed in a position to make it quite clear during the negotiations that the policy of H.M.G. will be carried out by one method or another, whatever the obstacles.

===== Page 253 =====
TOP SECRET

FUTURE CONSTITUTION FOR MALAY PENINSULA.

Division of Malaya into two parts.

1. In the War Cabinet Secret Paper CMB(44)3 dated 14th January, 1944, the Secretary of State for the Colonies sets out, in general terms, the future constitutional policy for British Colonial Territories in South East Asia. It is clear that as regards Malaya the aim is -
(a) A separate Government for Singapore Island.
(b) The Union of the four Federated Malay States, the five Unfederated Malay States and the Settlements of Penang and Malacca.

2. Before discussing a new constitutional policy for Malaya it is as well to state briefly what is the present constitution. Malaya is divided into three parts -
(a) The Straits Settlements, a Crown Colony, for which His Majesty is able to legislate under the Straits Settlements Act, 1866.
(b) The four Malay States of Perak, Selangor, Negri Sembilan and Pahang over which His Majesty has no powers under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act. These States formed themselves into a Federation in 1896, and in 1909 a Federal Council was established which enacted legislation having the force of law throughout the Federation.
(c) The five Unfederated Malay States of Johore, Kedah, Kelantan, Trengganu and Perlis. Each of these States is independent and His Majesty has no powers under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act over any of them. Each such State has its own legislature, namely the Ruler in State Council.

All the nine Malay States are bound to Great Britain by treaties which date from 1874, in the case of Perak, to 1930, in the case of Perlis. The provisions of these treaties follow the same general lines, namely that each Malay Ruler

===== Page 254 =====
Shall accept a British officer whose advice shall be asked and acted upon in all questions other than those concerning Mohammedan religion and Malay custom. In addition, as regards Perlis, the 1930 treaty contains a provision by which His Majesty's Government have undertaken that they "will not merge or combine the State of Perlis with any other State without the written consent of the Raja of Perlis in Council", and, as regards Kedah, by the 1923 treaty, His Majesty's Government have undertaken that they "will not merge or combine the State of Kedah or her territories with any other State or with the Colony of the Straits Settlements without the written consent of His Highness the Sultan in Council".

Under the present constitutional set up legislation for the Settlements of Penang and Malacca is enacted by the Legislative Council of the Straits Settlements, legislation for the Federated Malay States by the Federal Council, and legislation for each Unfederated Malay State by the Ruler in State Council of each such State.

In the Federated Malay States, in addition to the Federal Council, each of the four States has its own local legislative body, namely the Ruler in State Council. These State Councils existed prior to British intervention in Malaya. After that intervention and the establishment of the Federal Council, legislative enactments of the State Councils decreased in Perak, Selangor, Negri Sembilan and Pahang as the following figures show:

| Enactments passed by State Councils | 1900 - 1909 | 1910 - 1925 |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Perak | 181 | 17 |
| Selangor | 188 | 13 |
| Negri Sembilan | 189 | 13 |
| Pahang | 175 | 20 |

In 1932, as a result of the policy of decentralization and constitutional re-organisation, the State Councils were reconstituted so as to be transmuted into representative and

===== Page 255 =====
Efficient bodies. Under that policy of decentralization, certain subjects were designated as State and others as Federal matters, and legislation on such subjects was enacted by the State or Federal Council in accordance with the appropriate designation. In any case in which doubt existed as to whether legislation on a particular matter should be enacted by the State or Federal Council, it was decided on the advice of the four Residents. It cannot be said that the Residents had any clear uniform views on whether a law should be State or Federal, nor did their decisions appear to follow any well-defined principles.

The effect of the reconstitution of the State Councils in each of the four Federated Malay States in 1932 was that more legislation was enacted by them, as is seen by the following figures:

Enactments passed by State Councils
1935 - 1940

Perak............... 32
Selangor............ 36
Negri Sembilan...... 27
Pahang............... 28

But, if the Supply and Final Supply (i.e., State Budgets) Enactments (in the period mentioned they amount to an average of 11 Enactments in each State) and also certain Enactments which, though enacted separately in each State, contain provisions which are practically identical throughout the four States (i.e., they might just as well have been Federal Enactments) are not taken into account, very few laws remain which, on account of relating primarily to local matters, needed to be enacted by State Councils. In fact, when the State legislation for the period 1935 - 1940 is examined, it is true to say that only Enactments such as the Dindings Cession Enactment and the Sultan Idris Religious and Charitable Trust (Amendment) Enactment in Perak, the Malayan Collieries Railway Enactment in Selangor, and a few other Enactments were

===== Page 256 =====
Really necessary to be enacted as State Enactments.

Accordingly, even after the policy of decentralization had been implemented, it could not be said that in the Federated Malay States, so far as legislation was concerned, State Councils played a vital part in the constitutional setup. I have no doubt that the reason for the reconstitution of State Councils in 1932 was a political step in an attempt to loosen the ties of the Federation in the hope of achieving a greater Union later, and not because such Councils were of any real value.

3. Reverting to the Secretary of State's Memorandum contained in the Secret Paper CMB(44)3 of the 14th January, 1944, the first step in the formation of a Malayan Union is that a fresh treaty should be concluded with each Sultan as soon as possible after re-occupation, under which such jurisdiction would be ceded to His Majesty as would enable him to legislate for the Malay States under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act. When those fresh treaties have been executed, a new constitution can be made by Order-in-Council under statutory powers. This must provide for some kind of constitutional union of the nine Malay States and the Settlements of Penang and Malacca.

In view of the authoritative statements which have been made regarding the independence of the Malay States, and the assurances given to the Malay Rulers that His Majesty's Government have no intention of impairing that independence, it is appropriate to quote here some of them because they are directly contrary to the present policy for the formation of a Malayan Union. The main assurances and the years in which they were made are:

(i) Sir John Anderson, High Commissioner for the Malay States, 1909.

"It was no small sacrifice of individuality on the part of the Rulers who entered on the compact of federation, and to complete and crown it by the Agreement in virtue of which we are assembled. They made that sacrifice willingly and gladly, because

===== Page 257 =====
They felt the debt which they owe to the protection and help which has been extended to them by England, and because they feel that the prosperity and progress of their States is bound up with the advancement of British interests in the Malay Peninsula. They have done this in the full confidence, based on the facts of the past, that, whatever is done by the British Government or by this Council, the faith and obligations of the treaties under which they agreed to accept British Advisers will always be scrupulously observed. They are confident that we will never forget that our powers are derived wholly from their gift, and that we are here in a Malay country as advisers and counsellors of its Malay sovereigns. I am sure that every one of us will bear that in mind, and that the Rulers, who have so earnestly at heart the real good and advancement of the people subject to them, will never have cause to regret that they agreed to this step.

(ii) Sir Laurence Nurns Guillemard, High Commissioner for the Malay States, 1921.

In Federal Council Sir Laurence Guillemard said it was not the policy of Government "to exert, in any manner whatsoever, any pressure upon any other State to enter the Federation." He went on to say that if other States chose to apply for membership their applications would be carefully considered. He stressed that the general policy was one of friendly co-operation between the several Malayan units in all matters of common interest, on the understanding that each party was free to act as it thought best in local matters.

(iii) Sir Hugh Clifford, High Commissioner for the Malay States, 1927.

In Federal Council Sir Hugh Clifford said -

"The adoption of any kind of Government by majority would forthwith entail the complete submersion of the indigenous population who would find themselves hopelessly outnumbered by the folk of other races; and this would produce a situation which would amount to a betrayal of trust which the Malays of these States, from the highest to the lowest, have been taught to impose in His Majesty's Government."

(iv) Mr. Ormsby Gore, Under-Secretary of State for the Colonies, 1928.

Mr. Ormsby Gore said - see Cmd. 3225, 1928 -

"They were, they are, and they must remain 'Malay' States ..."

===== Page 258 =====
The States were, when our co-operation in government was invited, Mohammedan monarchies and such they are today. We have neither the right nor the desire to vary this system of government.

(v) Sir Samuel Wilson, Under-Secretary of State for the Colonies, 1932.

In his report on his visit to Malaya Sir Samuel Wilson said:

"It seems clear that the maintenance of the position, authority and prestige of the Malay Rulers must always be a cardinal point in British policy... His Majesty's Government have no intention of requiring the Ruler of any Unfederated Malay State to enter against his will into any kind of Malayan League or Union."

(vi) Sir P. Cunliffe-Lister (now Lord Swinton), Secretary of State for the Colonies, 1933.

On the 14th July, 1933, Sir P. Cunliffe-Lister said in the House of Commons - Hansard Vol. 281 page 1429:

"There is no question at all of altering in any degree, even by a comma, the Treaties which bind us, either in the Federated or in the Unfederated Malay States and which are charters of the agreements with the Rulers both of the Federated and Unfederated Malay States."

4. The authoritative pronouncements and assurances mentioned in paragraph 3 are bound to be referred to by the Malay Rulers when we come to negotiate the new treaties, and His Majesty's Government must be prepared and armed with cogent reasons why the proposed new constitutional setup for a unified Malay Peninsula is necessary. One of the reasons I have heard mentioned is that the existence of nine separate and distinct States and three Settlements in a country no larger than England makes it difficult to prepare plans for the defence of such country. But this reason will not carry us very far because I believe that any proposals put up for the defence of Malaya have always been agreed to by all the Malay Rulers, and whilst such Rulers cannot help but concede that there has been a certain amount of delay in obtaining their consent to such proposals, I imagine that His Majesty's Government cannot plead that if there had been only one government of Malaya

===== Page 259 =====
The handling of the defence of Malaya would have been no better.

In my view, we must approach and argue this matter on a much higher plane, so that the proposed new constitutional setup for the Malay Peninsula will survive scrutiny and criticism in the calm atmosphere of the post-war peace, rather than giving it the appearance of a plan hastily devised during the present war.

In my view, the main reasons why a Union comprising the Malay Peninsula, i.e., the Federated Malay States, the Unfederated Malay States, and the Settlements of Penang and Malacca, is necessary are:

(a) The development of Malaya is due to members of immigrant races, and its further development lies largely in their hands.

(b) The present-day position of China as one of the four great Allied Nations.

(c) The need for creating Malayan nationalism.

(d) The present constitutional setup, with its several units, impairs efficiency and is not conducive to the political progress and economic development of the country.

As regards (a), a study of the Annual Reports of the Federated Malay States, and even some of the Unfederated Malay States, demonstrates how the development of the resources of the country has been carried out by non-Malays.

The Malay is essentially an agriculturalist; hence, in tin mining, where there is not the possibility that rubber cultivation offers of small holdings run by a single individual or a single family, the Malays, for all practical purposes, have no share whatsoever. Tin mines are owned almost exclusively by Europeans or Chinese, and the latter race supplies the bulk of the labour force to work them. Similarly

===== Page 260 =====
In businesses, these are in the hands of Europeans, Chinese, and Indians, and only occasionally are Malays found who are sufficiently capable for employment in commercial concerns.

Turning to rubber, one would expect to find the Malays playing an important role in the production of this agricultural product. Admitting that Malays generally have not had the capital necessary to open up large rubber estates, there has been no obstacle placed in their way of becoming labourers on rubber estates. Yet the reluctance of the Malays to enter this labour market is shown in the 1931 Census which found, in the Federated Malay States, only 7,373 Malays on rubber estates as compared with 37,863 Chinese and 203,036 Indians. Even for the Malays, these figures are on the high side because many of them included in the estate population are permitted to live on the estate and are not employed there.

Of the 3,071,319 acres of rubber which had been planted in Malaya up to the end of 1931, 1,855,797 acres were made up of estates of 100 acres and over, and 1,215,522 acres of estates under 100 acres. Malay ownership of the former is insignificant and probably not much more than 50% of the latter.

Hence it is true to say that as regards the two main industries of tin and rubber, which gave rise to the importance of Malaya in the economic world and laid the foundation of the country's wealth, though the Malays benefited to a considerable extent from the many social services financed from such wealth, they played little part in their development or progress. The importance of tin and rubber to Malaya cannot be overemphasized. Together they make up more than 90% of the exports and furnish a high percentage of the national income. Had it not been for the Europeans, Chinese, and Indians, these two important industries would not have been properly developed and, in the march of progress, it is

===== Page 261 =====
Impossible to expect in British protected countries, such as Malaya, that the people who make their homes there and develop the country's resources are continually to be denied any real political status in the country.

I do not subscribe to the view that the Sultans are petty autocratic Malay Rulers—they might have been but for their British Advisers—but, in a country such as Malaya with its heterogeneous population and its large commercial interests, the Sultans are really anachronisms. Without British assistance the Sultans would never have attained their present position; without such assistance, they would have remained local chiefs. The continuance of the British policy of "Malaya for the Malays" is gradually earning for the Malays the jealousy of the other Eastern races in Malaya, because members of those other races dislike seeing persons who are their inferiors in intellect and capabilities continually being favoured at their expense. If this pro-Malay policy is allowed to continue it is bound to lead to political unrest and may even end with the Malays regarding the British as their worst enemies. Some Malays already believe that many changes which have been brought about have been for the benefit of foreigners, and that the pro-Malay policy of the British is merely to resist the political demands of the immigrant races rather than the protection of Malay interests.

With regard to (b), i.e. the present-day position of China, there can be no doubt that in the post-war world China will wish to have a large say in Far Eastern affairs, and in this respect she will have the support of other civilized nations, particularly the United States of America where non-American interests are concerned.

In view of the high proportion of Chinese in the population of Malaya it is natural that the Chinese Government will do all in its power to assist its own nationals in obtaining a bigger

===== Page 262 =====
say in the Government of Malaya, and it would be wise for His Majesty's Government to anticipate such a demand by making an early public pronouncement of its intentions as to the proposed Union of the States and Settlements making up the Malay Peninsula.

In the Appendix to this Memorandum I set out in tabular form the racial position of the population of Malaya in 1931 (the latest actual census figures) in so far as it relates to the Malays, Chinese and Indians. From the figures in that Appendix the following two salient points emerge:

(a) The Malays throughout the whole of Malaya only outnumber the Chinese by 252,629.

(b) In addition to the preponderance of Chinese over Malays in Singapore and Penang, the Chinese outnumber the Malays in three of the Federated Malay States and almost equal them in numbers in the Unfederated Malay State of Johore.

If this increase in the population continues at the same rate in the future as it has done in the past, the Chinese will soon, if they have not already done so (see estimated population as at 30th June, 1941, set out in paragraph 7(B) below), outnumber the Malays. The following table gives the percentage increases by race during two decades.

1911 - 1921. 1921 - 1931.

Malays ... 15% 17%
Chinese ... 28% 46%

The problem of the political status of the Chinese is one which has been raised frequently in the past, fortunately not as forcibly as it might have been, and on our return to Malaya, with China as a powerful member of the victorious Allied Nations, there can be no doubt that forceful representations will be made to His Majesty's Government and to the local government in Malaya for the Chinese to have a larger say in

===== Page 263 =====
That government. It is sound policy to forestall this representation by making public at the appropriate time His Majesty's Government's intention to create a Malayan Union of the Federated Malay States, the Unfederated Malay States, and the Settlements of Penang and Malacca.

In fact, I think it might be said that should greater political liberty be denied to the immigrant races in Malaya, and the policy of reconstruction built on the unstable foundations of Malay monarchy, His Majesty's Government would find it difficult to maintain her position in Malaya for any lengthy period.

I have seen it stated that Indonesia has been promised powers and status equal to those of Holland itself when the Axis war is over. If this is so, it cannot be expected that the peoples of Malaya, other than the Malays, will be content to remain in the slough of narrow parochialism whilst the inhabitants of Sumatra, for instance, just across the Straits of Malacca, are granted a greater say in planning their own destinies on a national basis.

I regard (c), i.e., the need for creating a Malayan nationalism, as probably the most cogent reason for establishing a Malayan Union.

The declared policy of His Majesty's Government with regard to our Colonies and Protectorates has always been, and still is, one of trusteeship with the ultimate granting of self-government. This has been wholly achieved as regards the Dominions, which were once Colonies, and some of our present Colonies are well on the road to that ultimate goal.

One of the great difficulties in achieving such a goal is that in most Colonies societies are plural, i.e., they consist of groups of people speaking different languages, having different outlooks, following different occupations, and with different customs. That being so, such plural

===== Page 264 =====
Societies can have no common will or political outlook. The members of such societies cannot be expected to view problems from a nationalistic outlook but only from the point of view of the group to which they belong. This is particularly so in Malaya where the Malayan Chinese and Indians look towards China and India respectively. So long as the present constitutional set up of the Malay States continues, so long will be the deferment of any national spirit. Without such national spirit Malaya will find it difficult to play its proper part in the post-war world. Hence what is required is the creation and fostering of a national outlook by means of which the peoples of Malaya can turn their eyes to the country as a whole, instead of towards China, India or to the particular Malay State to which they belong, thus lifting problems on to the higher plane of national statesmanship and pooling the resources of the various States and Settlements for the benefit of a united Malaya.

Under the present constitutional set up any such change of outlook is not feasible. The only solution is through the medium of some kind of union. Such union should not only raise the outlook of the people to a national one but should also achieve the political integration of the plural society in Malaya. Without union such political integration is impossible, without political integration there can be no national outlook and, in my view not much hope in the future of granting self-government to Malaya.

Finally, as regards (d), i.e. the loss of efficiency and the difficulties due to Malaya being split up into several administrative units. In order to appreciate the significance of this it is necessary to bear in mind that in the Federated and Unfederated Malay States, which make up a country no larger than England, there are ten different legislatures. Six of these legislatures, the Federal Council and the State Councils of the five Unfederated Malay States, are separate and

===== Page 265 =====
Independent. The system is in no way analogous to that of English County Councils, because each such legislature possesses, for all practical purposes, sovereign powers. For example, Negri Sembilan (this is a federation of nine miniature states) is smaller than Devonshire, Selangor is only slightly larger, and even Perak or Johore only a little more extensive than Yorkshire. With all these Governments enacting their own legislation, it has been difficult in the past to maintain uniformity in laws, an essentiality for a country which, in fact, is one economic unit. This has been more forcibly impressed on my mind in planning the legal side of the Military Administration for the re-occupation of Malaya.

In such a small area, where most of the problems are common to each of the various Governments, it is inconceivable that in order to obtain a uniformity of policy on essential matters, two Governments and nine Malay Sultans must be consulted. Such a policy must result in compromises at times, because the Sultans have always had the right of direct appeal to the Secretary of State for the Colonies, and naturally a Governor tries to avoid this.

From whatever angle the constitutional problem of Malaya is viewed, common sense dictates the answer that the only solution is a Malayan Union, which has as its object the welfare of the local Malays and the immigrant races who have made Malaya their home, and which, at the same time, will safeguard the historical individuality of each Malay State and the personal prestige of its Ruler.

I make no apology for setting out at some length the introductory material in this and the previous paragraphs, because it is essential to get a clear background of the present constitutional set up and the reasons why it is desirable, even necessary, to create a Union.

===== Page 266 =====
5. In the War Cabinet Secret Paper OMB(44)3 of 14th January, 1944, it is laid down that:

(a) There should be a Union of all the Malay States and the Settlements of Penang and Malacca.

(b) It is desirable that the Island of Singapore should not be included in that Malayan Union.

The particular paragraphs of the Secret Paper setting out in general terms the proposed constitutional scheme are reproduced here in extenso, because I have endeavoured to keep the constitution, which I propose later in this Memorandum, within the general framework of the scheme set out in those paragraphs. The relevant paragraphs are:

"10. Within Malaya conditions of dynastic pride and local particularism militate against the emergence within any foreseeable future of a union of the existing Malay States under a native Ruler; nor, for reasons explained above, would the emergence of a unified Malay monarchy for the whole province be acceptable to other non-Malay communities with substantial interests in the country. The British Crown alone provides the common link and loyalty which will draw the separate communities together and promote a sense of common interest and the development of common institutions. It is therefore necessary that, as a first step, the old situation in which His Majesty has no jurisdiction in the Malay States should be remedied. The legal view is that our present Treaties with the Malay Rulers are at present to be regarded as still operative (though for practical purposes in suspension owing to enemy occupation of the territory). A fresh treaty, therefore, with each Ruler should be concluded as soon as possible after re-occupation under which such jurisdiction would be ceded to His Majesty as would enable him to legislate for the States under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, notwithstanding, in the case of Kedah and Perlis, the Clauses mentioned in paragraph 5 above. Thereafter it will be possible to proceed to create a new constitution for Malaya by Order-in-Council under statutory powers. This will involve fresh legislation in the United Kingdom Parliament in respect of the Straits Settlements.

11. Our constitutional scheme should be designed, first and foremost, to provide for a Union of all the Malay States and the settlements of Penang and Malacca. A central authority representing these States and Settlements should be created, and at its head there should be a Governor with an Executive and Legislative Council. The seat of Government of this Malayan Union would be conveniently at or near Kuala Lumpur, the capital of the present limited Federation. Subject to the new central authority, the several States and Settlements would be empowered to deal with such local affairs as may be devolved upon them by the central authority. These local authorities would be so constituted as to be representative of the principal communities and interests in the State or Settlement concerned."

===== Page 267 =====
12. It is desirable that the Island of Singapore should not be included in the present conception of the Malayan Union. Its inclusion might adversely affect the Malay attitude towards the proposals for the Union of the States, which is the first and foremost object of our policy and the necessary basis for any more extensive Union. The basis for a separate organisation for the Island of Singapore already existed in the Municipality of Singapore, but the appointment of a separate Governor or Lieutenant-Governor for the Settlement will be desirable. There will, of course, be many matters of administration e.g. Posts and Telegraphs, on which the closest collaboration will be required between the authorities at Singapore and the rest of the Peninsula, but these can be the subject of particular agreements. Nevertheless, it should be made clear that His Majesty's Government has no desire to preclude or prejudice in any way the fusion of the two Administrations in a wider Union at any time should they both agree that such a course were desirable.

14. It is recognised that this programme will require the sacrifice by the State Rulers of some part of the authority and jurisdiction hitherto exercised by them. The interests of Malaya as a whole clearly require such a sacrifice. But there is no intention that the Rulers should lose their personal position as the natural leaders of their Malay people within their State territory. Indeed, the association of their territories in the Union will give the Rulers an opportunity to play their part in a wider sphere of affairs, for it is intended to devise means to associate the Rulers personally with the machinery of the central authority, possibly as an advisory body to the Governor in respect of Malay and Mohammedan affairs. In any event, our past obligations will require that the elaboration of the new constitutional arrangements should have regard to the political, economic and social interests of the Malay race.

In addition to the scheme set out in the above mentioned paragraphs, the Secretary of State for the Colonies, in a secret and personal letter to the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia Command, dated the 13th June, 1944, expressed the view (inter alia) that the Sultans should derive from a central Malayan authority any temporal authority which they are to exercise in the post war arrangement, and that they should not be given any grounds for believing that they will have derived authority in the constitution - apart from their personal prestige and dignity - either by reason of delegation from any external British authority or by reason of their own royal status.

I refer to this later because in the constitution suggested by me, the Sultans are granted what I regard as

===== Page 268 =====
Their fit and proper position with certain defined functions to be performed by them.

It appears clear from paragraph 11 of the Secret Paper quoted above, that in the proposed scheme the several States and Settlements, as they now stand, are to be retained together with their present boundaries. That is my interpretation of the words:

"Subject to the new central authority, the several States and Settlements would be empowered to deal with such local affairs as may be devolved upon them by the central authority. These local authorities would be so constituted as to be representative of the principal communities and interests in the State or Settlement concerned."

The retention of the States and Settlements, as they now stand, would be in keeping with British ideals and policy, namely to build on whatever fabric of government is found in territory ceded to, or coming under the protection of, Great Britain, by the moulding of a new constitution upon the fabric of government already existing, rather than by the total destruction of whatever scheme of government is found, with a consequential complete rebuilding.

Malay Rulers.

6. The basis for the creation of a Union and the establishment of its constitution is the negotiation of separate treaties with the Sultans of the four Federated and five Unfederated Malay States, whereby each Sultan will cede to His Majesty such jurisdiction as will enable His Majesty to legislate under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act for all the nine Malay States, thereby setting up, under an Order-in-Council, a central legislature with powers to legislate for all these nine States. All those States will be incorporated into a Malayan Union, together with the British Settlements of Penang and Malacca, which at present form part of the Straits Settlements.

Subject to the usual power of disallowance by His Majesty, there will be no restriction on the legislative powers of this central legislature. Legislation required to have the force

===== Page 269 =====
Of law throughout the whole of the Malayan Union will be enacted by this new central legislature instead of, as formerly, by the Federal Council in respect of the four Federated Malay States, and by the State Council for each Unfederated Malay State, and by the Legislative Council of the Straits Settlements as regards the Settlements of Penang and Malacca.

The negotiation of these new treaties (one treaty with each separate Sultan) creates difficulties, because in fact His Majesty's Government is requesting each Sultan to sign away many of his powers. This immediately brings to the forefront what position the Malay Sultans will have in the new constitution, and the whole success or failure of the negotiations for the execution of these new treaties hangs on this matter.

As a statement of fact it is true to say that under the present constitution the position in the Federated Malay States is that the Residents rule and the Sultans advise, whereas in each Unfederated Malay State the Sultan rules and the British Adviser advises.

In law, the Sultans in the Federated Malay States, if they wished, could prevent a law passed by the Federal Council coming into force by refusing to assent to it, and in each of the Unfederated Malay States, the Sultan's assent is essential before any law passed by the State Council can have the force of law.

Clearly, in the Union, the central legislature must be supreme and the laws passed by it cannot depend for their force of law upon the assent of each one of the nine Sultans. Accordingly, in the new constitution, the Sultans as sovereign Rulers can have no place in the central legislature and the laws passed by that legislature must be assented to solely by the Governor.

===== Page 270 =====
The possibility had occurred to me of the new Central Legislature being bicameral in form, with the composition of the Second Chamber made up of the nine Sultans and the Governor. The difficulties of such a scheme are many. The main ones are to obtain suitable representation for the Settlements of Penang and Malacca; to devise ways and means of settling differences between the Lower and Upper Chambers; without the inclusion in the Second Chamber of the principal officers of Government, e.g., Chief Secretary, Attorney-General, and Financial Secretary, the business of the Second Chamber relating to legislation, finance, and matters of a technical nature would be very difficult of transaction.

Apart from these difficulties, a Second Chamber, composed of the Malay Rulers, would not be truly representative of the peoples of the Malay Peninsula, because the Sultans would be bound to look at problems mainly from the point of view of the Malays and also from the parochial view of their own States.

Further, the main functions of a Second Chamber are (a) to prevent the discharge of precipitate and ill-considered legislation by a single House, (b) to look on problems from a non-party aspect, and (c) to discuss at leisure matters of general and non-political importance.

In short, as Bagehot has stated, a Second Chamber "Besides independence to revise judicially and power to revise effectively, has leisure to revise intellectually." The Sultans, either individually or collectively, do not possess the necessary qualifications to perform effectively the real functions of a Second Chamber and on this account, and on account of the difficulties I have just mentioned, I am satisfied that any such Second Chamber is impracticable. In any case, it would be impolitic to attempt to find it a place within the scheme of a unified constitution for the Malay Peninsula.

===== Page 271 =====
But some place must be found for the Sultans in that constitution, because I consider they will not be satisfied with being informed, to quote from paragraph 14 of the Secret Paper, that their position is merely that of "natural leaders of their Malay people within their State territories."  

A provision common to all the treaties between His Majesty's Government and the Sultans is that on matters of Mohammedan Religion and Malay Custom the Sultan is not bound to ask and accept the advice of the Resident or Adviser. These are matters which only affect the Malay community of the Malay States and, as regards the Settlements of Penang and Malacca, which are British territory, such provisions are not relevant. It is right and proper that on those matters the Governor in the Union should have the advice of the Sultans as a body. Accordingly the new constitution should provide for the establishment of a Council composed of all the Sultans (the term "Malay Rulers" must be abandoned) which should be a deliberative, consultative and advisory, but not an executive, body, with the Governor, or in his absence the Officer Administering the Government, as its President. On account of the fact that the Yam Tuan of Negri Sembilan and the Raja of Perlis are not Sultans this Council should have a Malay title as it would not be politic to give it the title in English "Council of Sultans." The main functions of this Council should be -  

(a) To advise the Governor on all matters affecting Mohammedan religion and Malay custom, before any such matter is discussed or dealt with by the Union Legislature, and the Governor should be bound to have such matters discussed in the Council of Sultans in the first instance.  

(b) To advise the Governor on any other matter which the Governor decides ought to be discussed in the Council of Sultans.

===== Page 272 =====
(c) To discuss any matter proposed for discussion by any Sultan, provided the Governor approves its discussion.

To restrict the functions of this Council to those mentioned in (a) alone would not satisfy the Sultans, and I see no harm in including (b) and (c).

As the relationship between His Majesty's Government and each Sultan is bound by treaty, the following matters should be debarred from discussion in the Council:

(a) Treaties, rights, dignities and privileges of each Sultan and members of his family, and the actions of each individual Sultan.

(b) The internal affairs of any individual State or Settlement which are properly within the purview of a State or Settlement Council.

It should be stated clearly that the establishment of this Council shall not prejudice in any way the treaty relations (by this I mean the new treaty arrangements) between His Majesty's Government and each Sultan, nor should the right of direct correspondence and access between any Sultan and the Governor be in any way impaired.

Such a Council should meet at regular intervals and should be opened with ceremony in keeping with the prestige of the Sultans.

Complete records of all Council Meetings should be kept in the English and Malay languages.

Council Meetings should not be public, but communiques to the press should be issued after each Meeting.

If such a Council is established with due ceremony and with the intention that the Governor should look upon it as a permanent consultative and advisory body, this ought to go a long way towards appeasing the Sultans, especially those of the Unfederated Malay States, for the loss of many of their present powers. With regard to the loss of those powers, it

===== Page 273 =====
It is appropriate here to suggest that immediately on the re-occupation of Malaya, the policy of the Military Government should be to stress the fact that the immediate Government of Malaya is a British Military Administration and give the appearance that if the Sultans act in a reasonable manner, His Majesty's Government will restore to them such of their former rights, dignities and privileges as are consonant with the proposed new constitution. This policy should tend to give the impression that it is the Sultans, rather than His Majesty's Government, who are seeking concessions.

If the new constitution is accepted by the Sultans, the Council of Sultans will form a valuable consultative and advisory body to which the Governor of the Central Government can look for advice, particularly on matters touching Mohammedan Religion and Malay Custom, because such advice will be collective rather than individual. In fact, each Sultan, as a member of this Council, will play his part in a wider sphere than hitherto. It should be pointed out to the Sultans that in the post-war world, the policy, not only of Great Britain but also of other nations, will be to deal with affairs on a regional basis rather than by individual States.

The rules of business for the Council should be framed by the Governor after consultation with the Sultans, and no meeting of the Council should be held unless the Governor or the Officer Administering the Government can attend, as it would be impolitic to hold any meeting with the Senior Sultan presiding.

I now revert to the Secretary of State's letter to which reference has been made in paragraph 5 above immediately following the citation of the relevant paragraphs from the Secret Paper CMB(44)3.

As I read the relevant passage quoted from that letter, the new constitution set up by the King-in-Council under the

===== Page 274 =====
Powers contained under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act will contain no reference to the functions of the Sultans. I would point out that it is the nature of the new constitution which will interest the Sultans more than the new treaties, because the latter merely provide the machinery by means of which the new constitution can be made.

If the Sultans find that they have been allotted no place in the new constitution, then, in my view, they will not sign the new treaties. If they are told that an appropriate place will be allotted to them by the "central Malayan authority" when it has been established (there is no precise description of the central authority contemplated and it may mean the Legislative Council of the Union Government) equally they will not be satisfied. In fact, if the "central Malayan authority" contemplated is the Legislative Council it would mean that the Malay, Chinese and Indian unofficial members of such Council would be able to air their views in public as to what position the Sultans should occupy. Further, any Malayan authority which gives powers to the Sultans could amend or revoke such powers, which would place the Sultans in the hands of that authority.

I cannot, myself, see the necessity for such a policy. The new constitution will take away from the Sultans most of their powers, so surely it should set out the position they are to occupy, and also specify, in general terms, the functions they are desired to perform. I am certain the Sultans would wish to be placed in their appropriate position in the new constitution by His Majesty the King-in-Council, after negotiations have taken place with each Sultan, rather than by any local Malayan authority. Also, any future change in their status and functions would then depend on the King-in-Council, after further discussions with the Sultans themselves, rather than their prestige and dignity being opened to discussion in local politics.

===== Page 275 =====
In an affair of this nature the end to be achieved is the same but it is the way of achieving it which is an all important matter.

7. Paragraph 11 of the Secret Paper states that there should be a Governor at the head of the Union Government with an Executive and Legislative Council. As this means that the Union Government should be conducted and constituted in the same way as the government of a Colony, it is necessary to consider the composition of both the Executive and Legislative Councils.

(A) Executive Council.

Since the Government will be run on the same lines as the government of a Colony I assume that, apart from the Governor, the three principal officers of government will be the Chief Secretary, the Attorney-General and the Financial Secretary. I have used the title "Attorney-General" because the term "Legal Adviser", used in the Federated and Unfederated Malay States, will no longer be appropriate.

Before setting out what I consider should be the composition of the Executive Council, the status of the British officers who are to be the heads of States and Settlements must be discussed. Under the present constitution the status of the British Resident is higher than that of any other executive officer of government in the Federated Malay States, and in each of the Unfederated Malay States the status of the British Adviser (General Adviser in Johore) is more or less equivalent to that of a British Resident in the Federated Malay States.

With the establishment of the Union Government there will no longer be the necessity to accord to the senior administrative officer in each State the same status as he held previously because his functions will be less important than those of many of the heads of departments of the Union Government and, in any case, he must be subordinate to the Chief Secretary. I suggest that the titles of the posts to be held

===== Page 276 =====
By the senior executive officers in the various States and Settlements, the title should be changed from "British Resident" in the Federated Malay States, "British Adviser" ("General Adviser" in Johore) in the Unfederated Malay States, and "Resident Councillor" in the Settlements of Penang and Malacca, to "Resident Commissioner" in each State and Settlement. The term "State Commissioner" would not be appropriate because in Johore certain Malay officials are called by that title. It will not be possible to have the eleven Resident Commissioners as members of Executive Council since their status will be less than that of the former British Residents, British Advisers, and Resident Councillors. In any case, their inclusion as members of Executive Council would not be appropriate in the unified constitution.

There should be five official members of Executive Council. Only the Chief Secretary, Attorney-General, and Financial Secretary should be ex-officio, leaving two other officials to be nominated by the Governor.

There should be an equal number of unofficial members of Executive Council, but it would be preferable not to prescribe such unofficial representatives on a racial basis. In the first instance, however, it is desirable that there should be one European, one Malay, one Chinese, and one Indian unofficial member on Executive Council, leaving the Governor free to nominate the most suitable unofficial to fill the remaining vacancy.

It is not necessary to lay down that the membership of Executive Council should be restricted to members of Legislative Council, though this is the ideal to be aimed at eventually.

The question arises whether membership of Executive Council should be restricted to persons who are Malayan Union Citizens, and having examined the provisions of the proposed Malayan Union Citizenship Directive, I do not think such restriction will create difficulties.

This will give an Executive Council consisting of the Governor and ten members.

===== Page 277 =====
(B) Legislative Council.

I assume that the unofficial members of the Legislative Council of the Union would be nominated because, in its present stage of development, the Malay Peninsula is unsuited to the electoral system.

Under the present constitution, the Federal Council of the Federated Malay States consists of:

High Commissioner - President.

Official Members:
- Resident of Perak.
- Resident of Selangor.
- Resident of Negri Sembilan.
- Resident of Pahang.
- Federal Secretary.
- Legal Adviser.
- Financial Secretary.
- Secretary for Chinese Affairs.
- Controller of Labour.
- General Manager, F.M.S. Railways.
- Adviser on Agriculture.
- Comptroller of Customs.
- Adviser on Medical Services.
- Adviser on Education.
- Additional member (Adviser on Public Works).

Unofficial Members:
- 5 Europeans.
- 4 Malays.
- 2 Chinese.
- 1 Indian.

Hence, in addition to the Governor, there are at present fifteen official and twelve unofficial members of the Federal Council.

Under the new constitution, unofficial representation on the Legislative Council should be on a population basis as far as possible. To this end, it is convenient to divide the Malay Peninsula into the following areas:

1. Kedah and Perlis.
2. Penang and Province Wellesley.
3. Perak.
4. Selangor and Pahang.
5. Negri Sembilan and Malacca.
6. Johore.
7. Kelantan and Trengganu.

===== Page 278 =====
The estimated population of these areas, by race, as on 30th June, 1941, is:

Area                      Malays   Europeans   Eurasians   Chinese    Indians    Others    Total

1. Kedah & Perlis          387,735     674        151      116,672    62,025     16,051   583,308
2. Penang & Province Wellesley 119,913  2,833     2,682     230,679    60,503     2,437    419,047
3. Perak                   335,385    4,113      1,590     450,197   196,056     5,350    992,691
4. Selangor & Pahang       281,236    5,606      2,831     413,632   210,730     9,317    923,352
5. Negri Sembilan & Malacca 217,912    2,029     3,346     217,931    87,552     3,326    532,096
6. Johore                  302,104    1,264       352      308,901    58,498     4,178    675,297
7. Kelantan & Trengganu    555,836      262        57       40,319     9,000     8,250    613,724

It is clear from the above figures that for the areas mentioned the nominated unofficials, in every case, will be Malays and Chinese, therefore some means must be evolved whereby adequate representation can be afforded to Europeans, Indians and Eurasians. This could be done by fixing the total number of unofficial members of Legislative Council at twenty-one, out of which fourteen members would be nominated to represent the above mentioned areas on a population basis. The remaining seven unofficial members would be nominated to represent important interests throughout the Union, thereby affording a suitable method of securing adequate representation for European, Indian and Eurasian interests.

There should be twenty-one official members of Legislative Council of whom five would be the official members of Executive Council.

(C) Temporary Advisory Council.

When Military Administration ceases and the new Civil Government is established in the Malay Peninsula it will be impossible for that Government to set up a Legislative Council immediately. To cover the interregnum between the end of the

===== Page 279 =====
Military Administration and the setting up of a Legislative Council. The new constitution should specifically provide for the establishment of an Advisory Council to the Governor which would temporarily take the place of a Legislative Council. This Advisory Council should consist of an unspecified number of official and unofficial members. During that temporary period, an Executive Council, consisting of five official and five unofficial members, would be in existence and function as it would when the Civil Government is established.

It is probable that the Chief Civil Affairs Officer will set up, during the period of Military Administration, an Advisory Council on which there will be unofficial representation, thus affording an opportunity for earmarking unofficials who would be suitable to serve on the Governor's Advisory Council.

Nomenclature.

(D) Nomenclature.

Suitable terms must be considered for what the Union Government and its Legislature are to be called. In order to stress that it is a Union, the following would appear to be appropriate terms:

(a) Union of Malaya.
(b) Government of the Union of Malaya.
(c) Legislative Council of the Union of Malaya.

The use of the term "Malaya" is not strictly accurate because Malaya includes Singapore, which is excluded from the Union, but this minor inaccurate geographical expression should be condoned in favour of stressing that the object is the unification of Malaya.

8. Reference has already been made to State Councils in the Federated Malay States being reconstituted in 1932. Perak and Negri Sembilan adopted the bi-cameral system, whereas in Selangor and Pahang there was only one chamber.

Putting aside the bi-cameral system in Perak and Negri Sembilan, the general composition of a State Council in the Federated Malay States was that it was presided over by the Sultan, with the British Resident, Malay Chiefs, State officials,

===== Page 280 =====
Unofficial Europeans; Malays, Chinese and Indians, as members.

Under the new constitution the Sultan must drop out and the President of a State or Settlement Council must be the Resident Commissioner. It is difficult to say now what the actual membership of a State or Settlement Council should be, but the members of those Councils should be appointed by the Governor after consulting the Resident Commissioner. As regards the nomination of unofficial members some consideration should be paid to the racial population of each State and Settlement, but I would not make this the only guide.

In view of the fact that the Sultans will have nothing to do with the State Councils it is advisable that an Advisory Council to the Sultan should be established in each State with appropriate functions and that such Council should be presided over by the Sultan. Its members should be appointed by the Sultan subject to the approval of the Governor.

The functions of that Advisory Council should be:

(a) To advise the Sultan on all matters affecting Mohammedan religion and Malay custom.

(b) To advise the Sultan on any other matter which the Resident Commissioner, with the approval of the Governor, refers to this Advisory Council.

As regards the functions of the State and Settlement Councils, paragraph 11 of the Secret Paper, quoted in paragraph 5 of this Memorandum, states:

"Subject to the new central authority, the several States and Settlements would be empowered to deal with such local affairs as may be devolved upon them by the central authority."

If by central authority is meant the Legislative Council of the Union of Malaya, I beg to differ because in my view that would unnecessarily restrict the functions of a State or Settlement Council.

I suggest that each State and Settlement Council should be empowered to legislate.

===== Page 281 =====
(a) On all matters which, in the opinion of the Governor-in-Council, are of a merely local or private nature in the State or Settlement.

(For instance, the Malayan Collieries Enactment, enacted by the State Council of Selangor, deals solely with the Malayan Collieries Ltd. building a private railway inside the State of Selangor).

Before the Governor-in-Council decides whether a matter requiring legislation should be enacted by a State or Settlement Council, he must first be satisfied by a certificate signed by the Attorney-General that it is a fit and proper matter for legislation by such a Council.

Having so decided, the Clerk to Executive Council will sign a certificate to that effect.

(b) On all subjects in respect of which the Legislative Council of the Union of Malaya by law delegates the power of making laws to a State or Settlement Council.

(Laws made by a State or Settlement Council under this provision would be in the nature of rules or regulations, etc., made under Ordinances passed by the Legislative Council of the Union of Malaya. I use the word "Ordinance" because I consider that it is the appropriate term to use for laws passed by the Legislative Council. The present word "Enactment" is more applicable to the legislative acts of a local body, and accordingly I suggest that the laws passed by State or Settlement Councils should be termed "Enactments".)

As regards other business of the State and Settlement Councils, I suggest that they should be empowered to discuss questions of a purely local nature. Provision can be made in their constitutions restricting discussions on other business to matters of a local nature. Such restrictions can be achieved by a provision.

===== Page 282 =====
Analogous to the usual clause contained in Instructions under the Sign Manual and Signet issued to a Governor, in which it is laid down that the Governor alone is entitled to submit questions to Executive Council. If Resident Commissioners are given similar powers, there should be no danger of discussions in State and Settlement Councils extending to subjects which extend beyond local matters.

9. A re-organisation of the Courts will be necessary consequent on the formation of a Union. Before discussing what form this re-organisation should take, it is desirable to set out briefly the present constitution of the Supreme Courts throughout Malaya.

The Supreme Court of the Colony is constituted by the Courts Ordinance (Cap. 10) and exercises within the Colony the same jurisdiction and authority as are held by His Majesty's High Court of Justice in England. Its Judges are appointed by His Majesty by Letters Patent under the Public Seal of the Colony. Hence those Judges are His Majesty's Judges functioning in the King's Courts.

The Supreme Court of the Federated Malay States is constituted by the Courts Enactment (Cap. 2) and comprises the Court of Appeal and the Courts of a Judge. The Court of a Judge has full criminal and civil jurisdiction. The Chief Justice and the other Judges are appointed jointly by the Rulers of the Federated Malay States and hence they are the Sultans' Judges and not Judges of His Majesty.

Under the Straits Settlements Courts Ordinance, the Judges of the Federated Malay States are declared ex officio Judges of the Supreme Court of the Colony and a similar law makes Judges of the Colony ex officio Judges of the Supreme Court of the Federated Malay States.

As regards appeals from the Supreme Court, in civil and criminal matters the Colony and the Federated Malay States each has its own Court of Appeal consisting of three or more Judges.

===== Page 283 =====
In practice, it is generally made up of the two Chief Justices and a puisne Judge.

I do not propose to go into the constitution of all the Courts of the Unfederated Malay States. I merely set out what is the position in the State of Johore under its Courts Enactment (Cap. 54). There the Supreme Court is made up of the Court of Appeal and the Court of a Judge. The Judge stationed in Johore is appointed by the Sultan and a provision of the Johore Courts Enactment makes the two Chief Justices and all the Judges of both the Colony and the Federated Malay States ex officio Judges of the State of Johore. As regards the Johore Court of Appeal, it is composed of two or more Judges and, in practice, the Chief Justice and one other Judge of the Colony sit.

In 1932 correspondence took place between the Governor and the Colonial Office regarding the establishment of a Supreme Court of Malaya, consisting of a Malayan Court of Appeal and a High Court of Justice for the Colony and for each of the Federated Malay States, and such other Malay States as desired to join. It was suggested that the Judges should consist of a Chief Justice (to be styled "Chief Justice of Malaya"), Appeal Judges and puisne Judges. At the time this proposal was made one of the main objects was to create a stronger Court of Appeal since at that time the Chief Justice of the Colony was not ex officio a Judge of the Federated Malay States, with the result that in the Federated Malay States the Court of Appeal was either composed of the Chief Justice of the Federated Malay States and two puisne Judges or, if the appeal was against a decision of the Chief Justice himself, it was heard before three puisne Judges. This state of affairs was quickly rectified by altering the law of the Federated Malay States in order to make the Chief Justice of the Colony an ex officio Judge of the Supreme Court of the Federated Malay States.

===== Page 284 =====
There was much opposition to the suggested judicial re-organisation. It was opposed by the then Acting Chief Justice, Federated Malay States, and also by the Federated Malay States Bar Committee. I was in Malaya at the time and know that most of the opposition was due to the feeling that if this judicial re-organisation came about with a single Chief Justice stationed in Singapore, the people of Singapore would have the ear of the Chief Justice and the members of the Bar of the Federated Malay States would come a very bad second.

In the correspondence between the Governor and the Colonial Office much was made of the fact that in both East and West Africa, Courts of Appeal have been set up for the purpose of hearing appeals from politically and legally distinct High Courts or Supreme Courts. This is true, on paper, but it is not true, in East Africa for instance, to say that the composition of the Court of Appeal is any stronger than it was in Malaya after the law was amended making the Chief Justice of the Colony an ex officio Judge of the Supreme Court of the Federated Malay States. After that amendment of the law the Court of Appeal was invariably composed of the two Chief Justices and one puisne Judge. From my experience in East Africa the Court of Appeal there is very often composed of two Chief Justices and a puisne Judge.

In view of the fact that the Island of Singapore and the rest of Malaya are to be two separate entities, with separate Governments, I see no useful purpose in having a Supreme Court for the whole of Malaya.

I realise that some of the executive departments in the new constitution will be pan-Malayan, but the reason for this is to keep policy uniform throughout Malaya on vital matters affecting the whole Union. The Court and its Judges are not concerned with any question of policy.

===== Page 285 =====
Accordingly, I suggest that there should be a separate High Court of the Union of Malaya with a Chief Justice at its head. The term "High Court" is used because it appears to be the custom to reserve the term "Supreme Court" for Crown Colonies. The Chief Justice will have sufficient work to do in reorganising the judicial system of all the Malay States and the two Settlements of Penang and Malacca, without having any responsibility for the Island of Singapore. In the first instance, a lot of his time will be taken up in travelling in order to get acquainted with local conditions, particularly in the Unfederated Malay States.

In addition to the Chief Justice, there must be a number of Judges of the High Court of the Union of Malaya stationed at various centres throughout the country. I need not go into the question of how many puisne Judges will be required or where they should be stationed.

In accordance with previous practice, the Chief Justice and the puisne Judges of the Supreme Court in Singapore should be declared ex officio Judges of the High Court of the Union of Malaya, and vice versa as regards the Chief Justice and puisne Judges of the High Court of the Union of Malaya. In practice, the Court of Appeal, whether sitting in the Union of Malaya or in Singapore, will invariably be composed of the two Chief Justices and one puisne Judge. I see no reason for creating a separate Court of Appeal which would mean the appointment of Appeal Judges with consequential extra expense.

This suggested constitution of the High Court of the Union of Malaya means that the judicial system of those Malay States which provide for Malay Judges and Appeal Courts composed of unqualified Malay Judges and a British Adviser (e.g., Perlis and Trengganu) must go. All these unqualified Judges must be replaced by qualified personnel and all appeals must go to the Court of Appeal of the Union of Malaya.

===== Page 286 =====
Death sentences in the Union of Malaya should be considered by the Governor-in-Council and not by the Malay Rulers.

I might say here, in order to give a fuller picture of this judicial system, I consider that the District Judge system in force in the Colony should be applied to the Union of Malaya, and that these appointments of District Judges should be made from the Colonial Legal Service. In fact, I think it is a matter for consideration whether District Courts should be given more extensive jurisdiction than they now possess in the Straits Settlements.

With regard to appeals from the Court of Appeal, at the present time appeals to the Privy Council are only provided for in the Colony, the Federated Malay States and in the State of Johore. In the Colony, there is an appeal to the King-in-Council as of right by virtue of the Charter and the constitution of the Straits Settlements as a Crown Colony. The Malay States, being merely protected States, are not subject to Orders-in-Council except at the request of the Rulers thereof.

In 1906, the four Sultans of the Federated Malay States requested the King-in-Council to entertain appeals from the Federated Malay States Court of Appeal in civil matters and in pursuance of such request the Federated Malay States Order-in-Council, 1906, was promulgated giving effect to the wishes of the Sultans. That Order-in-Council was revoked and replaced by the Federated Malay States Appeal Order-in-Council in 1912 consequent upon the enactment of what is now section 33 of the Courts Enactment (Cap. 2) which reads as follows:

"From any judgment or order of the Court of Appeal in any civil matter an appeal may be made to His Britannic Majesty in Council subject to such rules and regulations as may from time to time be prescribed by order of His said Majesty in Council."

The same procedure was followed in Johore in 1921.

The new constitution should provide for appeals from the Court of Appeal of the Union of Malaya to the Privy Council.

===== Page 287 =====
10. Having dealt with the constitutional setup regarding the Government of the Union of Malaya, its Executive and Legislative Councils, the State and Settlement Councils, and the Courts, it is now appropriate to discuss the question of the transfer to the Union Government of the property, etc., belonging to the various States and Settlements.

As the constitution of the Union of Malaya is to be that of a Union and not a Federation, and since the local legislatures in the States and Settlements will be completely subordinate to the central government, and also because the Sultans will no longer be sovereign Rulers but will collectively form an Advisory Council to the Governor, I feel that there is no room for any compromise in the transference of State and Settlement property to the Union Government and in the latter assuming full liability for State and Settlement debts. It appears to me that if the new constitution is to be a Union, let it be one in practice and not merely on paper. Accordingly, I have been largely guided by the provisions of the South Africa Act, 1909, in making the following suggestions. I am well aware that the State of Johore is wealthy compared with the other Unfederated Malay States, and that in creating a Union the State of Johore will contribute into the common pool assets greater in extent than those made by other Malay States. Although it will be difficult to persuade the Sultan of Johore to see reason on this, it cannot be avoided, because to have an effective Union there can be no exceptions.

It is not possible in a general Memorandum of this kind to provide for every particular matter in the transfer of State and Settlement property to the Union Government, and I merely set out below the main subjects to which consideration must be given.

(a) Revenues.

Under the present system in the Federated Malay States, certain revenues are appropriated to finance Federal Services and other revenues remain State. In the new constitution, we are not, as stated above, endeavouring

===== Page 288 =====
To create a greater federation, the aim is a Union and therefore there is no necessity for deciding what revenues shall be retained by the various States and Settlements and what shall go to the Union Government. All revenues, from whatever source arising, over which the States had powers of appropriation at the time of the establishment of the Union must vest in the Union Government. The financial experts may consider it desirable to appoint a commission after the establishment of the Union, to enquire into the financial arrangements which should exist between the Union Government and the various States and Settlements.

(b) Transfer of State and Settlement property.

All cash, bankers' balances, securities for moneys etc. belonging to each State and Settlement at the establishment of the Union must be transferred to the Union Government. If, however, the balance of any funds raised at the establishment of the Union has been raised by law for any special purpose in any State or Settlement, the Union Government must appropriate such balance for the special purpose for which it was raised.

(c) State land, mines and minerals.

By section 8 of the Federated Malay States Land Code (Cap. 138) and by similar provisions in the land laws of the Unfederated Malay States, the entire property in, and control of, State land is vested solely in the Ruler of the State.

As regards the alienation of State land, each British Resident in the Federated Malay States is empowered to alienate it on behalf of the Ruler of the State, and in the Unfederated Malay States although by law the Sultan in Council is the authority having the power to alienate State land, in fact the Sultan in Council has delegated such power to other bodies and [POSSIBLY MISSING].

===== Page 289 =====
persons. At one time, I thought it might be unnecessary to amend the law whereby State land is vested in the Ruler of the State, but having read and thought much about a unified constitution, I am of the opinion that all State land, public works, mines and minerals, and all property, whether moveable or immoveable, and all rights of whatever description belonging to the several States and Settlements must be transferred to the Union Government, which will take such property subject to any encumbrances thereon.

(d) Railways, Ports and Harbours.

With regard to the Railways, the Federated Malay States Government owns the entire railway system of Malaya, with the exception of the Johore State Railway which is leased from Johore. The latest lease with Johore was executed on 30th November, 1932, and provides that the Federated Malay States Government shall hold a lease for the Johore State Railway until the 31st December, 1953. Under that lease, the Federated Malay States Government pays to Johore a token sum of one dollar per year in advance and also a certain percentage of the net revenue on the working of the Federated Malay States Railway System. If there is a deficit on such a working, Johore gets nothing, but, on the other hand, Johore does not have to stand any proportionate share of any deficit.

Under the new constitution, the whole railway must be transferred to the Union Government which means that all the capital sunk in the Railway by the Federated Malay States Government and also by the Johore Government accrues to the benefit of the Union Government.

In recent years, it cannot be said that Johore has been making much profit from their share in the

===== Page 290 =====
Federated Malay States Railway System, because, after 1931, the running of the railway has generally resulted in a deficit, and by the end of 1934 the Railway Renewals Reserve Fund had been depleted to such an extent that it only stood at $7,478,164.

Hence, as regards the transfer of the railway to the Union Government, it means a great sacrifice by the Federated Malay States Government, with a correspondingly lesser one by the Johore Government, and a resultant gain to the remainder of the States and Settlements forming the Union.

With the exception of the port and harbour property at Penang, Prai and Butterworth which is vested in the Penang Harbour Board by section 30(1)(c) of the Straits Settlements Ports Ordinance (Cap. 149), all ports and harbours in the various States and Settlements must be transferred to the Government of the Union of Malaya.

(e) State and Settlement debts.

The Union of Malaya Government having assumed ownership of all the property formerly belonging to the various States and Settlements must, in equity, assume liability for all their debts, and the interest thereon, as they stand at the time of the establishment of the Union.

(f) Financial arrangements between the Straits Settlements and the Government of the Union of Malaya.

Since Penang and Malacca are part of the Straits Settlements and under the new constitution they will be transferred from the jurisdiction of the Government of the Straits Settlements to that of the Government of the Union of Malaya, agreement must be reached as to what is to be the division of the assets and liabilities of these two Settlements.

===== Page 291 =====
Between the new Government of the Island of Singapore and the Government of the Union of Malaya, presumably this matter will be decided by agreement between the two Governments.

11. At the establishment of the Union, all the laws of each particular State and Settlement will be in force, and until the Legislative Council of the Union of Malaya begins to function, there will not be in existence any Union Legislation. Accordingly, the constitution itself must provide that all the laws in force in the several States and Settlements at the establishment of the Union shall continue in force in the respective States and Settlements until repealed or amended by the Legislature of the Union of Malaya.

If the judicial system as suggested in paragraph 9 of this Memorandum is adopted, provision must be made for the pending cases and appeals being taken over by the new Courts from the old Courts.

As regards legislation after the establishment of the Union, one difficulty occurs to me. All the Malay States have not reached an equal stage of development, e.g., Trengganu, Kelantan, and Perlis are behind Kedah and much behind the four Federated Malay States and Johore. In these backward States, there is no legislation on several highly technical subjects, e.g., bills of exchange, and it will not be desirable to legislate on such subjects in these backward States for some time to come.

12. I have carried out a certain amount of research as to whether the Courts should be given express power to interpret the constitution or whether the granting of such express power is unnecessary.

I do not think there can be any doubt that the Courts must have power to interpret the constitution should the occasion arise.

===== Page 292 =====
In South Africa and Canada, there is no law expressly conferring power on the Courts to interpret the constitution, and yet numerous decided cases show that there is no doubt that the Courts in those two Dominions have assumed such jurisdiction.

On the other hand, in Australia, section 76 of the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act provides (inter alia) that Parliament may make laws conferring jurisdiction on the High Court on any matter arising under the constitution or involving its interpretation.

By section 30 of the Commonwealth Judiciary Act, 1903-1934, the High Court is given original jurisdiction in all matters arising under the constitution and involving its interpretation. Thus, in Australia, the Federal High Court has been given express powers to interpret the constitution.

In the Colonies, the most useful case I can find on this matter is Jerusalem - Jaffa District Governor v Suleiman Murra (1926) A.C.321, in which it was held by the Privy Council that it was the right and duty of the Supreme Court of Palestine to consider whether an Ordinance was consistent with the terms of the Mandate.

I have not had time to go into this matter in detail but incline to the view that, for the avoidance of doubts, it is preferable to include express provision in the constitution empowering the Courts to interpret it, and express provision must be included to the effect that, in case of conflict, Ordinances of the Union of Malaya must prevail over Enactments of State and Settlement Councils.

13. Paragraph 15 of the Secret Paper states -

"The complete details of the application of this policy and in particular the detailed measures to be designed for the creation of a self-governing institution can only be worked out on the spot after re-occupation in the light of the prevailing conditions."

Knowing the mentality of the Sultans and the necessity for getting the new treaties executed as quickly as possible after the re-occupation of Malaya, I consider that the new

===== Page 293 =====
Constitution must be in complete draft form before we return to Malaya. The new treaties are merely the machinery by means of which a new constitution can be created, and it is the new constitution which will interest the Sultans. It would be fatal to let it appear that we had no cut and dried scheme for that constitution on our return. The less delay in negotiating the new treaties, the better chance we have of the Sultans agreeing to them. They will not agree unless we are in a position to tell them exactly what our plans are regarding the new constitution. Therefore, I urge that the new treaties and the new constitution should be in complete draft form before the re-occupation of Malaya.

Conclusion.

14. The constitution as outlined in this Memorandum was originally submitted to the Colonial Office on 15th November 1944, as representing the views of the writer only.

Since that date discussions have taken place between representatives of the Colonial Office and of C.A. (M.P.U.). As a result of those discussions, a few amendments of minor importance have been made in the Memorandum as originally drafted, and I think that the Memorandum as it now stands represents the considered views of those representatives of the Colonial Office and of C.A. (M.P.U.) who read the Memorandum in its original form and attended those discussions.

C.A. (M.P.U.),
38 Hyde Park Gate,
LONDON, S.W.7.

H.C. WILLAN

8th March 1945.

Distribution:

Copy Nos.
Colonial Office 1 - 20
Major-General Hone 21 - 40
Colonel Newboult 41
Colonel McKerron 42
Mr. O'Connor 43
Colonel Willan 44 - 50

===== Page 294 =====
APPENDIX

MALAY, CHINESE AND INDIAN POPULATION OF MALAYA.

1931 CENSUS

| Area               | Square Miles | Malays     | % of Total | Chinese    | % of Total | Indians    | % of Total |
|--------------------|--------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
| Singapore          | 217          | 71,177     | 12.5       | 421,821    | 74.3       | 51,019     | 9.0        |
| Penang             | 388          | 118,832    | 33.1       | 176,518    | 49.0       | 58,020     | 16.1       |
| Malacca            | 720          | 95,307     | 51.0       | 65,179     | 34.9       | 23,238     | 12.4       |
| STRAITS SETTLEMENTS| 1,325        | 285,316    | 25.6       | 663,518    | 59.6       | 132,277    | 11.9       |
| Perak              | 7,983        | 272,546    | 35.6       | 325,527    | 42.5       | 159,152    | 20.8       |
| Selangor           | 3,156        | 122,868    | 23.1       | 241,351    | 45.3       | 155,924    | 29.2       |
| Negri Sembilan     | 2,550        | 87,195     | 37.3       | 92,371     | 39.5       | 50,100     | 21.4       |
| Pahang             | 14,000       | 111,122    | 61.7       | 52,291     | 29.0       | 14,820     | 8.2        |
| FEDERATED MALAY STATES | 27,689    | 593,731    | 34.7       | 711,540    | 41.5       | 379,996    | 22.2       |
| Johore             | 7,500        | 234,422    | 46.4       | 215,076    | 41.4       | 51,038     | 10.1       |
| Kedah              | 3,800        | 286,262    | 66.6       | 78,415     | 18.2       | 50,824     | 12.0       |
| Perlis             | 316          | 39,831     | 80.9       | 6,500      | 13.2       | 966        | 2.0        |
| Kelantan           | 5,870        | 330,774    | 91.2       | 17,612     | 4.9        | 6,752      | 1.9        |
| Trengganu          | 6,000        | 164,564    | 91.5       | 13,254     | 7.4        | 1,371      | 0.8        |
| UNFEDERATED MALAY STATES | 23,486    | 1,055,853  | 69.2       | 330,857    | 21.7       | 110,951    | 7.3        |
| Brunei             | 2,500        | 26,972     | 89.5       | 2,683      | 8.9        | 377        | 1.3        |
| Unlocated          | 149          | 10.0       | 794        | 53.1       | 408        | 27.3       |
| MALAYA             | 55,000       | 1,962,021  | 44.7       | 1,709,392  | 39.0       | 624,009    | 14.2       |

===== Page 295 =====
The War Cabinet has approved, for planning purposes, the policy of creating after the war a Malayan Union, as opposed to an extended Federation of Malay States. Accordingly, the memorandum postulates throughout that the central legislature to be established on our return shall constitute the supreme authority from which all other authorities in the Peninsula shall derive their powers. This postulate is inherent in the conception of a Union as opposed to that of a Federation (in which the constituent units retain their sovereignty, and merely devolve some of their powers upon a central body).

2. Subject to this basic conception the memorandum proposes (page 16) that the nine States and the Settlements of Penang and Malacca shall be retained as geographical units with their present boundaries.

3. In considering the position of the Malay Rulers (pages 16-23), the memorandum considers and rejects the idea that there should be an Upper Chamber of Sultans. The idea is rejected partly because of the difficulty of devising satisfactory relations between the Lower and Upper Chambers, and partly because the Sultans do not possess the necessary qualifications to perform the functions of a Second Chamber in any real and effective manner. Nevertheless, the memorandum contends that some place must be found for the Sultans in the new Constitution, and proposes that the Sultans collectively should form an Advisory Council to the Governor. The subjects upon which this Council would deliberate would be principally questions of Mohammedan religion and Malay custom, (in relation to which the special position of the Sultans has always been recognised), but other subjects would also be open for discussion in the Council.

===== Page 296 =====
Council, either at the instance of the Governor or at the instance of any of the Sultans with the Governor's consent. The Council would meet regularly under the presidency of the Governor and would be regarded as a permanent body. Its meetings would be attended by all the ceremony necessary to maintain the prestige of the Sultans. It would not, however, impair the right of direct access between individual Sultans and the Governor. In concluding this section (Section 6), the memorandum argues that the new position of the Sultans should be defined in the Constitution itself. When the time comes to negotiate the new Treaties, this alone will satisfy the Sultans, but they will not be content to be told that an appropriate position will be allotted to them by the new central legislature.

4. The memorandum assumes (page 23) that, apart from the Governor, the three principal officers of Government will be the Chief Secretary, the Attorney-General, and the Financial Secretary. It goes on to argue (pages 23 and 24) that the position of the British Residents or Advisers in each of the States should be modified. Before the war, the status of these officers was higher than that of any other official save the High Commissioner, but with the establishment of the Union Government their importance will diminish and they must be made subordinate to the Chief Secretary. The memorandum proposes that these officers, as well as the officers at the head of the two Settlements, should be uniformly styled "Resident Commissioner."

5. The memorandum then proposes the creation of an Executive and Legislative Council, and discusses the constitution of each. The Executive Council (page 24) should have 5 Official and 5 Unofficial members, in addition to the Governor. Of the Official members, the Chief Secretary, the Attorney-General, and the Financial Secretary should be ex officio, while the other two would be nominated by the Governor. The Unofficial members would also be nominated by

===== Page 297 =====
By the Governor. A racial basis should not be prescribed for such nomination, but in the first instance, there should probably be one European, one Malay, one Chinese, and one Indian Unofficial member, the Governor being left free to nominate the most suitable Unofficial to fill the remaining vacancy. Membership of the Executive Council would be confined to Malayan Union citizens. The Legislative Council (pages 25 and 26) should have, besides the Governor, 21 Official and 21 Unofficial members. Fourteen of the latter should be nominated to represent areas on a population basis, and the remainder to represent important interests throughout the Union. Five of the Official members would be the Official members of the Executive Council and the remainder would be nominated by the Governor.

6. The memorandum then deals (pages 27 - 30) with State and Settlement Councils. In the past, the Sultans were Presidents of the State Councils. This practice must cease, and the President of the State or Settlement Council of the future must be the Resident Commissioner. Exact membership cannot be defined in advance, but members should be appointed by the Governor after consulting the Resident Commissioner. As regards the nomination of unofficial representatives, some consideration should be paid to the racial population of each State and Settlement but this should not be the only guide. Side by side with the State Councils there should be established in each State Advisory Councils to the Sultans, which should be presided over by the Sultan, and should advise him first on matters affecting Mohammedan religion and Malay custom and secondly on other matters referred to it by the Resident Commissioner with the approval of the Governor. The members, subject to the Governor's approval, would be appointed by the Sultan.

The State and Settlement Councils would be empowered to legislate (a) on all matters which, in the opinion

===== Page 298 =====
Opinion of the Governor in Council, are of a merely local or private nature in the State or Settlement and (b) on all subjects in respect of which power is delegated to them by law by the Legislative Council of the Union of Malaya.

7. Next, the memorandum discusses the organisation of the Courts (pages 30-34). The idea of establishing a Supreme Court for the whole of Malaya, including the Island of Singapore as well as the Malayan Union, is rejected. It is suggested that there should be a separate High Court of the Union of Malaya with a Chief Justice at its head. In addition to the Chief Justice, there must be Judges of the High Court stationed at various centres throughout the Peninsula. In accordance with previous practice, the Chief Justice and the Puisne Judges of the Supreme Court in Singapore should be declared ex officio Judges of the High Court of the Union of Malaya and vice versa. In practice, the Court of Appeal, whether sitting in the Union of Malaya or Singapore, will invariably be composed of the two Chief Justices and one Puisne Judge. The memorandum sees no reason for creating a separate Court of Appeal, which would involve the appointment of Appeal Judges. The new Constitution should provide for appeals from the Court of Appeal of the Union of Malaya to the Privy Council.

8. The next section (pages 35-39) is devoted to the transfer of State and Settlement property etc. to the Union Government. In order that the future Union of Malaya may become a reality, the memorandum considers it necessary that all State and Settlement property shall be transferred to the Union Government which shall assume full liability for State and Settlement debts. The Union will take over all revenues from the States and the Settlements, all cash, bank balances, securities, etc., all State land, mines and minerals and all railways, ports and harbours (with the exception of the port and harbour property at Penang, Prai and Butterworth which is vested in the Penang Harbour Board). The memorandum recognises that this wholesale pooling

===== Page 299 =====
Wholesale pooling of resources may be objectionable to a rich State such as Johore, which stands to lose by the arrangement, but contends that nothing short of this will permit the future Union to become an effective reality.

9. Finally (pages 39 and 40) the memorandum states the view that there should be express provision in the Constitution empowering the Courts to interpret it, and laying down that in case of conflict, ordinances of the Union of Malaya must prevail over enactments of State and Settlement Councils.

===== Page 300 =====
1. In the War Cabinet Secret Paper CMB(44)3 dated 14th January 1944, the Secretary of State for the Colonies sets out, in general terms, the future constitutional policy for British Colonial Territories in South East Asia. It is clear that as regards Malaya the aim is:
   (a) A separate Government for Singapore Island.
   (b) The Union of the four Federated Malay States, the five Unfederated Malay States, and the Settlements of Penang and Malacca.

2. Before discussing a new constitutional policy for Malaya, it is as well to state briefly what is the present constitution. Malaya is divided into three parts:
   (a) The Straits Settlements, a Crown Colony, for which His Majesty is able to legislate under the Straits Settlements Act, 1866.
   (b) The four Malay States of Perak, Selangor, Negri Sembilan, and Pahang over which His Majesty has no powers under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act. These States formed themselves into a Federation in 1896, and in 1909 a Federal Council was established which enacted legislation having the force of law throughout the Federation.
   (c) The five Unfederated Malay States of Johore, Kedah, Kelantan, Trengganu, and Perlis. Each of these States is independent and His Majesty has no powers under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act over any of them. Each such State has its own legislature, namely the Ruler in State Council.

All the nine Malay States are bound to Great Britain by treaties which date from 1874, in the case of Perak, to 1930, in the case of Perlis. The provisions of these treaties follow the same general lines, namely that each Malay Ruler

===== Page 301 =====
Shall accept a British officer whose advice shall be asked and acted upon in all questions other than those concerning Mohammedan religion and Malay custom. In addition, as regards Perlis, the 1930 treaty contains a provision by which His Majesty's Government have undertaken that they "will not merge or combine the State of Perlis with any other State without the written consent of the Raja of Perlis in Council", and, as regards Kedah, by the 1923 treaty, His Majesty's Government have undertaken that they "will not merge or combine the State of Kedah or her territories with any other State or with the Colony of the Straits Settlements without the written consent of His Highness the Sultan in Council".

Under the present constitutional set up legislation for the Settlements of Penang and Malacca is enacted by the Legislative Council of the Straits Settlements, legislation for the Federated Malay States by the Federal Council, and legislation for each Unfederated Malay State by the Ruler in State Council of each such State.

In the Federated Malay States, in addition to the Federal Council, each of the four States has its own local legislative body, namely the Ruler in State Council. These State Councils existed prior to British intervention in Malaya. After that intervention and the establishment of the Federal Council, legislative enactments of the State Councils decreased in Perak, Selangor, Negri Sembilan and Pahang as the following figures show:

Enactments passed by State Councils.

1900 - 1909.   1910 - 1925.

Perak ........ 181     17
Selangor ..... 188     13
Negri Sembilan 189     13
Pahang ....... 175     20

In 1932, as a result of the policy of decentralization and constitutional re-organisation, the State Councils were reconstituted so as to be transmuted into representative and

===== Page 302 =====
Efficient bodies. Under that policy of decentralization, certain subjects were designated as State and others as Federal matters, and legislation on such subjects was enacted by the State or Federal Council in accordance with the appropriate designation. In any case in which doubt existed as to whether legislation on a particular matter should be enacted by the State or Federal Council, it was decided on the advice of the four Residents. It cannot be said that the Residents had any clear uniform views on whether a law should be State or Federal, nor did their decisions appear to follow any well-defined principles.

The effect of the reconstitution of the State Councils in each of the four Federated Malay States in 1932 was that more legislation was enacted by them, as is seen by the following figures:

Enactments passed by State Councils,
1935 - 1940

Perak .................. 32
Selangor ............... 36
Negri Sembilan ........ 27
Pahang ................. 28

But, if the Supply and Final Supply (i.e., State Budgets) Enactments (in the period mentioned they amount to an average of 11 Enactments in each State) and also certain Enactments which, though enacted separately in each State, contain provisions which are practically identical throughout the four States (i.e., they might just as well have been Federal Enactments) are not taken into account, very few laws remain which, on account of relating primarily to local matters, needed to be enacted by State Councils. In fact, when the State legislation for the period 1935 - 1940 is examined, it is true to say that only Enactments such as the Dindings Cession Enactment and the Sultan Idris Religious and Charitable Trust (Amendment) Enactment in Perak, the Malayan Collieries Railway Enactment in Selangor, and a few other Enactments were

===== Page 303 =====
Really necessary to be enacted as State Enactments.

Accordingly, even after the policy of decentralization had been implemented, it could not be said that in the Federated Malay States, so far as legislation was concerned, State Councils played a vital part in the constitutional setup. I have no doubt that the reason for the reconstitution of State Councils in 1932 was a political step in an attempt to loosen the ties of the Federation in the hope of achieving a greater Union later, and not because such Councils were of any real value.

3. Reverting to the Secretary of State's Memorandum contained in the Secret Paper CMB(44)3 of the 14th January, 1944, the first step in the formation of a Malayan Union is that a fresh treaty should be concluded with each Sultan as soon as possible after re-occupation, under which such jurisdiction would be ceded to His Majesty as would enable him to legislate for the Malay States under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act. When those fresh treaties have been executed, a new constitution can be made by Order-in-Council under statutory powers. This must provide for some kind of constitutional union of the nine Malay States and the Settlements of Penang and Malacca.

In view of the authoritative statements which have been made regarding the independence of the Malay States, and the assurances given to the Malay Rulers that His Majesty's Government have no intention of impairing that independence, it is appropriate to quote here some of them because they are directly contrary to the present policy for the formation of a Malayan Union. The main assurances and the years in which they were made are:

(i) Sir John Anderson, High Commissioner for the Malay States, 1909.

"It was no small sacrifice of individuality on the part of the Rulers who entered on the compact of federation, and to complete and crown it by the Agreement in virtue of which we are assembled. They made that sacrifice willingly and gladly, because

===== Page 304 =====
They felt the debt which they owe to the protection and help which has been extended to them by England, and because they feel that the prosperity and progress of their States is bound up with the advancement of British interests in the Malay Peninsula. They have done this in the full confidence, based on the facts of the past, that, whatever is done by the British Government or by this Council, the faith and obligations of the treaties under which they agreed to accept British Advisers will always be scrupulously observed. They are confident that we will never forget that our powers are derived wholly from their gift, and that we are here in a Malay country as advisers and counselors of its Malay sovereigns. I am sure that every one of us will bear that in mind, and that the Rulers, who have so earnestly at heart the real good and advancement of the people subject to them, will never have cause to regret that they agreed to this step.

(ii) Sir Laurence Nunns Guillemard, High Commissioner for the Malay States, 1921.

In Federal Council Sir Laurence Guillemard said it was not the policy of Government "to exert, in any manner whatsoever, any pressure upon any other State to enter the Federation." He went on to say that if other States chose to apply for membership their applications would be carefully considered. He stressed that the general policy was one of friendly co-operation between the several Malayan units in all matters of common interest, on the understanding that each party was free to act as it thought best in local matters.

(iii) Sir Hugh Clifford, High Commissioner for the Malay States, 1927.

In Federal Council Sir Hugh Clifford said -

"The adoption of any kind of Government by majority would forthwith entail the complete submersion of the indigenous population who would find themselves hopelessly outnumbered by the folk of other races; and this would produce a situation which would amount to a betrayal of trust which the Malays of these States, from the highest to the lowest, have been taught to impose in His Majesty's Government."

(iv) Mr. Ormsby Gore, Under-Secretary of State for the Colonies, 1928.

Mr. Ormsby Gore said - see Cmd. 3225, 1928 -

"They were, they are, and they must remain 'Malay' States ..."

===== Page 305 =====
The States were, when our co-operation in government was invited, Mohammedan monarchies and such they are today. We have neither the right nor the desire to vary this system of government."

(v) Sir Samuel Wilson, Under-Secretary of State for the Colonies, 1932.

In his report on his visit to Malaya Sir Samuel Wilson said -

"It seems clear that the maintenance of the position, authority and prestige of the Malay Rulers must always be a cardinal point in British policy ... His Majesty's Government have no intention of requiring the Ruler of any Unfederated Malay State to enter against his will into any kind of Malayan League or Union."

(vi) Sir P. Cunliffe-Lister (now Lord Swinton) Secretary of State for the Colonies, 1933.

On the 14th July, 1933, Sir P. Cunliffe-Lister said in the House of Commons - Hansard Vol. 281 page 1429 -

"There is no question at all of altering in any degree, even by a comma, the Treaties which bind us, either in the Federated or in the Unfederated Malay States and which are charters of the agreements with the Rulers both of the Federated and Unfederated Malay States."

4. The authoritative pronouncements and assurances mentioned in paragraph 3 are bound to be referred to by the Malay Rulers when we come to negotiate the new treaties, and His Majesty's Government must be prepared and armed with cogent reasons why the proposed new constitutional set up for a unified Malay Peninsula is necessary. One of the reasons I have heard mentioned is that the existence of nine separate and distinct States and three Settlements in a country no larger than England makes it difficult to prepare plans for the defence of such country. But this reason will not carry us very far because I believe that any proposals put up for the defence of Malaya have always been agreed to by all the Malay Rulers, and whilst such Rulers cannot help but concede that there has been a certain amount of delay in obtaining their consent to such proposals, I imagine that His Majesty's Government cannot plead that if there had been only one government of Malaya.

===== Page 306 =====
The handling of the defence of Malaya would have been any better.

In my view, we must approach and argue this matter on a much higher plane than that, so that the proposed new constitutional setup for the Malay Peninsula will survive scrutiny and criticism in the calm atmosphere of the post-war peace, rather than giving it the appearance of a plan hastily devised during the present war.

In my view, the main reasons why a Union comprising the Malay Peninsula, i.e., the Federated Malay States, the Unfederated Malay States, and the Settlements of Penang and Malacca is necessary are:

(a) The development of Malaya is due to members of immigrant races, and its further development lies largely in their hands.

(b) The present-day position of China as one of the four great Allied Nations.

(c) The need for creating a Malayan nationalism.

(d) The present constitutional setup, with its several units, impairs efficiency and is not conducive to the political progress and economic development of the country.

As regards (a), a study of the Annual Reports of the Federated Malay States, and even some of the Unfederated Malay States, demonstrates how the development of the resources of the country has been carried out by non-Malays.

The Malay is essentially an agriculturalist; hence, in tin mining, where there is not the possibility that rubber cultivation offers of small holdings run by a single individual or a single family, the Malays, for all practical purposes, have no share whatsoever. Tin mines are owned almost exclusively by Europeans or Chinese, and the latter race supplies the bulk of the labour force to work them. Similarly

===== Page 307 =====
In businesses, these are in the hands of Europeans, Chinese, and Indians, and only occasionally are Malays found who are sufficiently capable for employment in commercial concerns.

Turning to rubber, one would expect to find the Malays playing an important role in the production of this agricultural product. Admitting that Malays generally have not had the capital necessary to open up large rubber estates, there has been no obstacle placed in their way of becoming labourers on rubber estates. Yet the reluctance of the Malays to enter this labour market is shown in the 1931 Census which found, in the Federated Malay States, only 7,373 Malays on rubber estates as compared with 37,863 Chinese and 203,036 Indians. Even for the Malays these figures are on the high side because many of them included in the estate population are permitted to live on the estate and are not employed there.

Of the 3,071,319 acres of rubber which had been planted in Malaya up to the end of 1931, 1,855,797 acres were made up of estates of 100 acres and over, and 1,215,522 acres of estates under 100 acres. Malay ownership of the former is insignificant and probably not much more than 50% of the latter.

Hence it is true to say that as regards the two main industries of tin and rubber, which gave rise to the importance of Malaya in the economic world and laid the foundation of the country's wealth, though the Malays benefited to a considerable extent from the many social services financed from such wealth, they played little part in their development or progress. The importance of tin and rubber to Malaya cannot be overemphasized. Together they make up more than 90% of the exports and furnish a high percentage of the national income. Had it not been for the Europeans, Chinese, and Indians, these two important industries would not have been properly developed and, in the march of progress, it is

===== Page 308 =====
Impossible to expect in British protected countries, such as Malaya, that the people who make their homes there and develop the country's resources are continually to be denied any real political status in the country.

I do not subscribe to the view that the Sultans are petty autocratic Malay Rulers—they might have been but for their British Advisers—but, in a country such as Malaya with its heterogeneous population and its large commercial interests, the Sultans are really anachronisms. Without British assistance, the Sultans would never have attained their present position; without such assistance, they would have remained local chiefs. The continuance of the British policy of "Malaya for the Malays" is gradually earning for the Malays the jealousy of the other Eastern races in Malaya, because members of those other races dislike seeing persons who are their inferiors in intellect and capabilities continually being favoured at their expense. If this pro-Malay policy is allowed to continue it is bound to lead to political unrest and may even end with the Malays regarding the British as their worst enemies. Some Malays already believe that many changes which have been brought about have been for the benefit of foreigners, and that the pro-Malay policy of the British is merely to resist the political demands of the immigrant races rather than the protection of Malay interests.

With regard to (b), i.e. the present-day position of China, there can be no doubt that in the post-war world China will wish to have a large say in Far Eastern affairs, and in this respect she will have the support of other civilized nations, particularly the United States of America where non-American interests are concerned.

In view of the high proportion of Chinese in the population of Malaya, it is natural that the Chinese Government will do all in its power to assist its own nationals in obtaining a bigger

===== Page 309 =====
Say in the Government of Malaya, and it would be wise for His Majesty's Government to anticipate such a demand by making an early public pronouncement of its intentions as to the proposed Union of the States and Settlements making up the Malay Peninsula.

In the Appendix to this Memorandum I set out in tabular form the racial position of the population of Malaya in 1931 (the latest actual census figures) in so far as it relates to the Malays, Chinese and Indians. From the figures in that Appendix the following two salient points emerge:

(a) The Malays throughout the whole of Malaya only outnumber the Chinese by 252,629.

(b) In addition to the preponderance of Chinese over Malays in Singapore and Penang, the Chinese outnumber the Malays in three of the Federated Malay States and almost equal them in numbers in the Unfederated Malay State of Johore.

If this increase in the population continues at the same rate in the future as it has done in the past, the Chinese will soon, if they have not already done so (see estimated population as at 30th June, 1941, set out in paragraph 7(B) below), outnumber the Malays. The following table gives the percentage increases by race during two decades:

1911 - 1921    1921 - 1931
Malays        15%           17%
Chinese       28%           46%

The problem of the political status of the Chinese is one which has been raised frequently in the past, fortunately not as forcibly as it might have been, and on our return to Malaya, with China as a powerful member of the victorious Allied Nations, there can be no doubt that forceful representations will be made to His Majesty's Government and to the local government in Malaya for the Chinese to have a larger say in

===== Page 310 =====
That government. It is sound policy to forestall this representation by making public at the appropriate time His Majesty's Government's intention to create a Malayan Union of the Federated Malay States, the Unfederated Malay States, and the Settlements of Penang and Malacca.

In fact, I think it might be said that should greater political liberty be denied to the immigrant races in Malaya, and the policy of reconstruction built on the unstable foundations of Malay monarchy, His Majesty's Government would find it difficult to maintain her position in Malaya for any lengthy period.

I have seen it stated that Indonesia has been promised powers and status equal to those of Holland itself when the Axis war is over. If this is so, it cannot be expected that the peoples of Malaya, other than the Malays, will be content to remain in the slough of narrow parochialism whilst the inhabitants of Sumatra, for instance, just across the Straits of Malacca, are granted a greater say in planning their own destinies on a national basis.

I regard (c), i.e., the need for creating a Malayan nationalism, as probably the most cogent reason for establishing a Malayan Union.

The declared policy of His Majesty's Government with regard to our Colonies and Protectorates has always been, and still is, one of trusteeship with the ultimate granting of self-government. This has been wholly achieved as regards the Dominions, which were once Colonies, and some of our present Colonies are well on the road to that ultimate goal.

One of the great difficulties in achieving such a goal is that in most Colonies societies are plural, i.e., they consist of groups of people speaking different languages, having different outlooks, following different occupations, and with different customs. That being so, such plural

===== Page 311 =====
Societies can have no common will or political outlook. The members of such societies cannot be expected to view problems from a nationalistic outlook but only from the point of view of the group to which they belong. This is particularly so in Malaya where the Malayan Chinese and Indians look towards China and India respectively. So long as the present constitutional setup of the Malay States continues, so long will be the deferment of any national spirit. Without such national spirit Malaya will find it difficult to play its proper part in the post-war world. Hence what is required is the creation and fostering of a national outlook by means of which the peoples of Malaya can turn their eyes to the country as a whole, instead of towards China, India or to the particular Malay State to which they belong, thus lifting problems on to the higher plane of national statesmanship and pooling the resources of the various States and Settlements for the benefit of a united Malaya.

Under the present constitutional setup any such change of outlook is not feasible. The only solution is through the medium of some kind of union. Such a union should not only raise the outlook of the people to a national one but should also achieve the political integration of the plural society in Malaya. Without union such political integration is impossible, without political integration there can be no national outlook, and, in my view, not much hope in the future of granting self-government to Malaya.

Finally, as regards (d), i.e. the loss of efficiency and the difficulties due to Malaya being split up into several administrative units. In order to appreciate the significance of this it is necessary to bear in mind that in the Federated and Unfederated Malay States, which make up a country no larger than England, there are ten different legislatures. Six of these legislatures, the Federal Council and the State Councils of the five Unfederated Malay States, are separate and

===== Page 312 =====
Independent. The system is in no way analogous to that of English County Councils, because each such legislature possesses, for all practical purposes, sovereign powers. For example, Negri Sembilan (this is a federation of nine miniature states) is smaller than Devonshire, Selangor is only slightly larger, and even Perak or Johore only a little more extensive than Yorkshire. With all these Governments enacting their own legislation, it has been difficult in the past to maintain uniformity in laws, an essentiality for a country which, in fact, is one economic unit. This has been more forcibly impressed on my mind in planning the legal side of the Military Administration for the re-occupation of Malaya.

In such a small area, where most of the problems are common to each of the various Governments, it is inconceivable that in order to obtain a uniformity of policy on essential matters, two Governments and nine Malay Sultans must be consulted. Such a policy must result in compromises at times, because the Sultans have always had the right of direct appeal to the Secretary of State for the Colonies, and naturally a Governor tries to avoid this.

From whatever angle the constitutional problem of Malaya is viewed, common sense dictates the answer that the only solution is a Malayan Union, which has as its object the welfare of the local Malays and the immigrant races who have made Malaya their home, and which, at the same time, will safeguard the historical individuality of each Malay State and the personal prestige of its Ruler.

I make no apology for setting out at some length the introductory material in this and the previous paragraphs, because it is essential to get a clear background of the present constitutional setup and the reasons why it is desirable, even necessary, to create a Union.

===== Page 313 =====
5. In the War Cabinet Secret Paper CMB(44)3 of the 14th January, 1944, it is laid down that:

(a) There should be a Union of all the Malay States and the Settlements of Penang and Malacca.

(b) It is desirable that the Island of Singapore should not be included in that Malayan Union.

The particular paragraphs of the Secret Paper setting out in general terms the proposed constitutional scheme are reproduced here in extenso because I have endeavoured to keep the constitution, which I propose later in this Memorandum, within the general framework of the scheme set out in those paragraphs. The relevant paragraphs are:

"10. Within Malaya, conditions of dynastic pride and local particularism militate against the emergence within any foreseeable future of a union of the existing Malay States under a native Ruler; nor, for reasons explained above, would the emergence of a unified Malay monarchy for the whole province be acceptable to other non-Malay communities with substantial interests in the country. The British Crown alone provides the common link and loyalty which will draw the separate communities together and promote a sense of common interest and the development of common institutions. It is, therefore, necessary that, as a first step, the old situation in which His Majesty has no jurisdiction in the Malay States should be remedied. The legal view is that our present Treaties with the Malay Rulers are at present to be regarded as still operative (though for practical purposes in suspension owing to enemy occupation of the territory). A fresh treaty, therefore, with each Ruler should be concluded as soon as possible after re-occupation under which such jurisdiction would be ceded to His Majesty as would enable him to legislate for the States under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, notwithstanding, in the case of Kedah and Perlis, the Clauses mentioned in paragraph 5 above. Thereafter it will be possible to proceed to create a new constitution for Malaya by Order-in-Council under statutory powers. This will involve fresh legislation in the United Kingdom Parliament in respect of the Straits Settlements.

11. Our constitutional scheme should be designed, first and foremost, to provide for a Union of all the Malay States and the settlements of Penang and Malacca. A central authority representing these States and Settlements should be created, and at its head there should be a Governor with an Executive and Legislative Council. The seat of Government of this Malayan Union would be conveniently at or near Kuala Lumpur, the capital of the present limited Federation. Subject to the new central authority, the several States and Settlements would be empowered to deal with such local affairs as may be devolved upon them by the central authority. These local authorities would be so constituted as to be representative of the principal communities and interests in the State or Settlement concerned."

===== Page 314 =====
12. It is desirable that the Island of Singapore should not be included in the present conception of the Malayan Union. Its inclusion might adversely affect the Malay attitude towards the proposals for the Union of the States, which is the first and foremost object of our policy and the necessary basis for any more extensive Union. The basis for a separate organisation for the Island of Singapore already existed in the Municipality of Singapore, but the appointment of a separate Governor or Lieutenant-Governor for the Settlement will be desirable. There will, of course, be many matters of administration, e.g., Posts and Telegraphs, on which the closest collaboration will be required between the authorities at Singapore and the rest of the Peninsula, but these can be the subject of particular agreements. Nevertheless, it should be made clear that His Majesty's Government has no desire to preclude or prejudice in any way the fusion of the two Administrations in a wider Union at any time should they both agree that such a course were desirable.

14. It is recognised that this programme will require the sacrifice by the State Rulers of some part of the authority and jurisdiction hitherto exercised by them. The interests of Malaya as a whole clearly require such a sacrifice. But there is no intention that the Rulers should lose their personal position as the natural leaders of their Malay people within their State territory. Indeed, the association of their territories in the Union will give the Rulers an opportunity to play their part in a wider sphere of affairs, for it is intended to devise means to associate the Rulers personally with the machinery of the central authority, possibly as an advisory body to the Governor in respect of Malay and Mohammedan affairs. In any event, our past obligations will require that the elaboration of the new constitutional arrangements should have regard to the political, economic and social interests of the Malay race.

In addition to the scheme set out in the above mentioned paragraphs, the Secretary of State for the Colonies, in a secret and personal letter to the Supreme Allied Commander, South East Asia Command, dated the 13th June 1944, expressed the view (inter alia) that the Sultans should derive from a central Malayan authority any temporal authority which they are to exercise in the post-war arrangement, and that they should not be given any grounds for believing that they will have derived authority in the constitution - apart from their personal prestige and dignity - either by reason of delegation from any external British authority or by reason of their own royal status.

I refer to this later because in the constitution suggested by me, the Sultans are granted what I regard as

===== Page 315 =====
Their fit and proper position with certain defined functions to be performed by them.

It appears clear from paragraph 11 of the Secret Paper quoted above, that in the proposed scheme the several States and Settlements, as they now stand, are to be retained together with their present boundaries. That is my interpretation of the words -

"Subject to the new central authority, the several States and Settlements would be empowered to deal with such local affairs as may be devolved upon them by the central authority. These local authorities would be so constituted as to be representative of the principal communities and interests in the State or Settlement concerned."

The retention of the States and Settlements, as they now stand, would be in keeping with British ideals and policy, namely to build on whatever fabric of government is found in territory ceded to, or coming under the protection of, Great Britain, by the molding of a new constitution upon the fabric of government already existing, rather than by the total destruction of whatever scheme of government is found, with a consequential complete rebuilding.

6. The basis for the creation of a Union and the establishment of its constitution is the negotiation of separate treaties with the Sultans of the four Federated and five Unfederated Malay States, whereby each Sultan will cede to His Majesty such jurisdiction as will enable His Majesty to legislate under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act for all the nine Malay States, thereby setting up, under an Order-in-Council, a central legislature with powers to legislate for all these nine States. All those States will be incorporated into a Malayan Union, together with the British Settlements of Penang and Malacca, which at present form part of the Straits Settlements.

Subject to the usual power of disallowance by His Majesty, there will be no restriction on the legislative powers of this central legislature. Legislation required to have the force

===== Page 316 =====
Of law throughout the whole of the Malayan Union will be enacted by this new central legislature instead of, as formerly, by the Federal Council in respect of the four Federated Malay States, and by the State Council for each Unfederated Malay State, and by the Legislative Council of the Straits Settlements as regards the Settlements of Penang and Malacca.

The negotiation of these new treaties (one treaty with each separate Sultan) creates difficulties, because in fact His Majesty's Government is requesting each Sultan to sign away many of his powers. This immediately brings to the forefront what position the Malay Sultans will have in the new constitution, and the whole success or failure of the negotiations for the execution of these new treaties hangs on this matter.

As a statement of fact, it is true to say that under the present constitution the position in the Federated Malay States is that the Residents rule and the Sultans advise, whereas in each Unfederated Malay State the Sultan rules and the British Adviser advises.

In law, the Sultans in the Federated Malay States, if they wished, could prevent a law passed by the Federal Council coming into force by refusing to assent to it, and in each of the Unfederated Malay States the Sultan's assent is essential before any law passed by the State Council can have the force of law.

Clearly, in the Union, the central legislature must be supreme and the laws passed by it cannot depend for their force of law upon the assent of each one of the nine Sultans. Accordingly, in the new constitution, the Sultans as sovereign Rulers can have no place in the central legislature and the laws passed by that legislature must be assented to solely by the Governor.

===== Page 317 =====
The possibility had occurred to me of the new Central Legislature being bicameral in form, with the composition of the Second Chamber made up of the nine Sultans and the Governor. The difficulties of such a scheme are many. The main ones are to obtain suitable representation for the Settlements of Penang and Malacca; to devise ways and means of settling differences between the Lower and Upper Chambers; without the inclusion in the Second Chamber of the principal officers of Government, e.g. Chief Secretary, Attorney-General, and Financial Secretary, the business of the Second Chamber relating to legislation, finance, and matters of a technical nature would be very difficult of transaction.

Apart from these difficulties, a Second Chamber, composed of the Malay Rulers, would not be truly representative of the peoples of the Malay Peninsula, because the Sultans would be bound to look at problems mainly from the point of view of the Malays and also from the parochial view of their own States.

Further, the main functions of a Second Chamber are (a) to prevent the discharge of precipitate and ill-considered legislation by a single House, (b) to look on problems from a non-party aspect, and (c) to discuss at leisure matters of general and non-political importance.

In short, as Bagehot has stated, a Second Chamber "Besides independence to revise judicially and power to revise effectively, has leisure to revise intellectually." The Sultans, either individually or collectively, do not possess the necessary qualifications to perform effectively the real functions of a Second Chamber and on this account, and on account of the difficulties I have just mentioned, I am satisfied that any such Second Chamber is impracticable. In any case, it would be impolitic to attempt to find it a place within the scheme of a unified constitution for the Malay Peninsula.

===== Page 318 =====
But some place must be found for the Sultans in that constitution, because I consider they will not be satisfied with being informed, to quote from paragraph 14 of the Secret Paper, that their position is merely that of "natural leaders of their Malay people within their State territories."

A provision common to all the treaties between His Majesty's Government and the Sultans is that on matters of Mohammedan Religion and Malay Custom the Sultan is not bound to ask and accept the advice of the Resident or Adviser. These are matters which only affect the Malay community of the Malay States and, as regards the Settlements of Penang and Malacca, which are British territory, such provisions are not relevant. It is right and proper that on those matters the Governor in the Union should have the advice of the Sultans as a body. Accordingly, the new constitution should provide for the establishment of a Council composed of all the Sultans (the term "Malay Rulers" must be abandoned) which should be a deliberative, consultative and advisory, but not an executive, body, with the Governor, or in his absence the Officer Administering the Government, as its President. On account of the fact that the Yam Tuan of Negri Sembilan and the Raja of Perlis are not Sultans this Council should have a Malay title as it would not be politic to give it the title in English "Council of Sultans." The main functions of this Council should be:

(a) To advise the Governor on all matters affecting Mohammedan religion and Malay custom, before any such matter is discussed or dealt with by the Union Legislature, and the Governor should be bound to have such matters discussed in the Council of Sultans in the first instance.

(b) To advise the Governor on any other matter which the Governor decides ought to be discussed in the Council of Sultans.

===== Page 319 =====
(c) To discuss any matter proposed for discussion by any Sultan, provided the Governor approves its discussion.

To restrict the functions of this Council to those mentioned in (a) alone would not satisfy the Sultans, and I see no harm in including (b) and (c).

As the relationship between His Majesty's Government and each Sultan is bound by treaty, the following matters should be debarred from discussion in the Council:

(a) Treaties, rights, dignities and privileges of each Sultan and members of his family, and the actions of each individual Sultan.

(b) The internal affairs of any individual State or Settlement which are properly within the purview of a State or Settlement Council.

It should be stated clearly that the establishment of this Council shall not prejudice in any way the treaty relations (by this I mean the new treaty arrangements) between His Majesty's Government and each Sultan, nor should the right of direct correspondence and access between any Sultan and the Governor be in any way impaired.

Such a Council should meet at regular intervals and should be opened with ceremony in keeping with the prestige of the Sultans.

Complete records of all Council Meetings should be kept in the English and Malay languages.

Council Meetings should not be public, but communiques to the press should be issued after each Meeting.

If such a Council is established with due ceremony and with the intention that the Governor should look upon it as a permanent consultative and advisory body, this ought to go a long way towards appeasing the Sultans; especially those of the Unfederated Malay States, for the loss of many of their present powers. With regard to the loss of those powers, it

===== Page 320 =====
It is appropriate here to suggest that immediately on the re-occupation of Malaya, the policy of the Military Government should be to stress the fact that the immediate Government of Malaya is a British Military Administration and give the appearance that if the Sultans act in a reasonable manner, His Majesty's Government will restore to them such of their former rights, dignities, and privileges as are consonant with the proposed new constitution. This policy should tend to give the impression that it is the Sultans, rather than His Majesty's Government, who are seeking concessions.

If the new constitution is accepted by the Sultans, the Council of Sultans will form a valuable consultative and advisory body to which the Governor of the Central Government can look for advice, particularly on matters touching Mohammedan Religion and Malay Custom, because such advice will be collective rather than individual. In fact, each Sultan, as a member of this Council, will play his part in a wider sphere than hitherto. It should be pointed out to the Sultans that in the post-war world the policy, not only of Great Britain but also of other nations, will be to deal with affairs on a regional basis rather than by individual States.

The rules of business for the Council should be framed by the Governor after consultation with the Sultans, and no meeting of the Council should be held unless the Governor or the Officer Administering the Government can attend, as it would be impolitic to hold any meeting with the Senior Sultan presiding.

I now revert to the Secretary of State's letter to which reference has been made in paragraph 5 above immediately following the citation of the relevant paragraphs from the Secret Paper CMB(44)3.

As I read the relevant passage quoted from that letter, the new constitution set up by the King-in-Council under the

===== Page 321 =====
Powers contained under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act will contain no reference to the functions of the Sultans. I would point out that it is the nature of the new constitution which will interest the Sultans more than the new treaties, because the latter merely provide the machinery by means of which the new constitution can be made.

If the Sultans find that they have been allotted no place in the new constitution, then, in my view, they will not sign the new treaties. If they are told that an appropriate place will be allotted to them by the "central Malayan authority" when it has been established (there is no precise description of the central authority contemplated and it may mean the Legislative Council of the Union Government), equally they will not be satisfied. In fact, if the "central Malayan authority" contemplated is the Legislative Council it would mean that the Malay, Chinese, and Indian unofficial members of such Council would be able to air their views in public as to what position the Sultans should occupy. Further, any Malayan authority which gives powers to the Sultans could amend or revoke such powers, which would place the Sultans in the hands of that authority.

I cannot, myself, see the necessity for such a policy. The new constitution will take away from the Sultans most of their powers, so surely it should set out the position they are to occupy, and also specify, in general terms, the functions they are desired to perform. I am certain the Sultans would wish to be placed in their appropriate position in the new constitution by His Majesty the King-in-Council, after negotiations have taken place with each Sultan, rather than by any local Malayan authority. Also, any future change in their status and functions would then depend on the King-in-Council, after further discussions with the Sultans themselves, rather than their prestige and dignity being opened to discussion in local politics.

===== Page 322 =====
In an affair of this nature, the end to be achieved is the same, but it is the way of achieving it which is an all-important matter.

7. Paragraph 11 of the Secret Paper states that there should be a Governor at the head of the Union Government with an Executive and Legislative Council. As this means that the Union Government should be conducted and constituted in the same way as the government of a Colony, it is necessary to consider the composition of both the Executive and Legislative Councils.

(A) Executive Council.

Since the Government will be run on the same lines as the government of a Colony, I assume that, apart from the Governor, the three principal officers of government will be the Chief Secretary, the Attorney-General, and the Financial Secretary. I have used the title "Attorney-General" because the term "Legal Adviser", used in the Federated and Unfederated Malay States, will no longer be appropriate.

Before setting out what I consider should be the composition of the Executive Council, the status of the British officers who are to be the heads of States and Settlements must be discussed. Under the present constitution, the status of the British Resident is higher than that of any other executive officer of government in the Federated Malay States, and in each of the Unfederated Malay States, the status of the British Adviser (General Adviser in Johore) is more or less equivalent to that of a British Resident in the Federated Malay States.

With the establishment of the Union Government, there will no longer be the necessity to accord to the senior administrative officer in each State the same status as he held previously because his functions will be less important than those of many of the heads of departments of the Union Government and, in any case, he must be subordinate to the Chief Secretary. I suggest that the titles of the posts to be held

===== Page 323 =====
By the senior executive officers in the various States and Settlements, their titles should be changed from "British Resident" in the Federated Malay States, "British Adviser" ("General Adviser" in Johore) in the Unfederated Malay States, and "Resident Councillor" in the Settlements of Penang and Malacca, to "Resident Commissioner" in each State and Settlement. The term "State Commissioner" would not be appropriate because, in Johore, certain Malay officials are called by that title. It will not be possible to have the eleven Resident Commissioners as members of the Executive Council since their status will be less than that of the former British Residents, British Advisers, and Resident Councillors. In any case, their inclusion as members of the Executive Council would not be appropriate in the unified constitution.

There should be five official members of the Executive Council. Only the Chief Secretary, Attorney-General, and Financial Secretary should be ex-officio, leaving two other officials to be nominated by the Governor.

There should be an equal number of unofficial members of the Executive Council, but it would be preferable not to prescribe such unofficial representatives on a racial basis. In the first instance, however, it is desirable that there should be one European, one Malay, one Chinese, and one Indian unofficial member on the Executive Council, leaving the Governor free to nominate the most suitable unofficial to fill the remaining vacancy.

It is not necessary to lay down that the membership of the Executive Council should be restricted to members of the Legislative Council, though this is the ideal to be aimed at eventually.

The question arises whether membership of the Executive Council should be restricted to persons who are Malayan Union Citizens; having examined the provisions of the proposed Malayan Union Citizenship Directive, I do not think such restriction will create difficulties.

This will give an Executive Council consisting of the Governor and ten members.

===== Page 324 =====
(B) Legislative Council.

I assume that the unofficial members of the Legislative Council of the Union would be nominated because, in its present stage of development, the Malay Peninsula is unsuited to the electoral system.

Under the present constitution, the Federal Council of the Federated Malay States consists of:

High Commissioner - President.

Official Members:
- Resident of Perak.
- Resident of Selangor.
- Resident of Negri Sembilan.
- Resident of Pahang.
- Federal Secretary.
- Legal Adviser.
- Financial Secretary.
- Secretary for Chinese Affairs.
- Controller of Labour.
- General Manager, F.M.S. Railways.
- Adviser on Agriculture.
- Comptroller of Customs.
- Adviser on Medical Services.
- Adviser on Education.
- Additional member (Adviser on Public Works).

Unofficial Members:
- 5 Europeans.
- 4 Malays.
- 2 Chinese.
- 1 Indian.

Hence, in addition to the Governor, there are at present fifteen official and twelve unofficial members of the Federal Council.

Under the new constitution, unofficial representation on the Legislative Council should be on a population basis as far as possible. To this end, it is convenient to divide the Malay Peninsula into the following areas:

1. Kedah and Perlis.
2. Penang and Province Wellesley.
3. Perak.
4. Selangor and Pahang.
5. Negri Sembilan and Malacca.
6. Johore.
7. Kelantan and Trengganu.

===== Page 325 =====
The estimated population of these areas, by race, as on 30th June, 1941, is:

Area                           Malays   Europeans   Eurasians   Chinese    Indians   Others    Total

1. Kedah & Perlis              387,735  674         151        116,672   62,025   16,051    583,308
2. Penang & Province Wellesley 119,913  2,833       2,682      230,679   60,503   2,437     419,047
3. Perak                       335,385  4,113       1,590      450,197   196,056  5,350     992,691
4. Selangor & Pahang           281,236  5,606       2,831      413,632   210,730  9,317     923,352
5. Negri Sembilan & Malacca    217,912  2,029       3,346      217,931   87,552   3,326     532,096
6. Johore                     302,104  1,264       352        308,901   58,498   4,178     675,297
7. Kelantan & Trengganu         555,836  262         57         40,319    9,000    8,250     613,724

It is clear from the above figures that for the areas mentioned the nominated unofficials, in every case, will be Malays and Chinese; therefore some means must be evolved whereby adequate representation can be afforded to Europeans, Indians and Eurasians. This could be done by fixing the total number of unofficial members of the Legislative Council at twenty-one, out of which fourteen members would be nominated to represent the above-mentioned areas on a population basis. The remaining seven unofficial members would be nominated to represent important interests throughout the Union, thereby affording a suitable method of securing adequate representation for European, Indian and Eurasian interests.

There should be twenty-one official members of the Legislative Council, of whom five would be the official members of the Executive Council.

(C) Temporary Advisory Council.

When Military Administration ceases and the new Civil Government is established in the Malay Peninsula, it will be impossible for that Government to set up a Legislative Council immediately. To cover the interregnum between the end of the

===== Page 326 =====
Military Administration and the setting up of a Legislative Council: the new constitution should specifically provide for the establishment of an Advisory Council to the Governor, which would take the place temporarily of a Legislative Council. This Advisory Council should consist of an unspecified number of official and unofficial members. During that temporary period, an Executive Council, consisting of five official and five unofficial members, would be in existence and function as it would when the Civil Government is established.

It is probable that the Chief Civil Affairs Officer will set up, during the period of Military Administration, an Advisory Council on which there will be unofficial representation, thus affording an opportunity for earmarking unofficials who would be suitable to serve on the Governor's Advisory Council.

Nomenclature.

(D) Nomenclature.

Suitable terms must be thought of as to what the Union Government and its Legislature are to be called. In order to stress that it is a Union, the following would appear to be appropriate terms:

(a) Union of Malaya.
(b) Government of the Union of Malaya.
(c) Legislative Council of the Union of Malaya.

The use of the term "Malaya" is not strictly accurate because Malaya includes Singapore, which is excluded from the Union, but this minor inaccurate geographical expression should be condoned in favour of stressing that the object is the unification of Malaya.

8. Reference has already been made to State Councils in the Federated Malay States being reconstituted in 1932. Perak and Negri Sembilan adopted the bicameral system, whereas in Selangor and Pahang there was only one chamber.

Putting aside the bicameral system in Perak and Negri Sembilan, the general composition of a State Council in the Federated Malay States was that it was presided over by the Sultan, with the British Resident, Malay Chiefs, State officials,

===== Page 327 =====
Unofficial Europeans, Malays, Chinese and Indians, as members.

Under the new constitution, the Sultan must drop out, and the President of a State or Settlement Council must be the Resident Commissioner. It is difficult to say now what the actual membership of a State or Settlement Council should be, but the members of those Councils should be appointed by the Governor after consulting the Resident Commissioner. As regards the nomination of unofficial members, some consideration should be paid to the racial population of each State and Settlement, but I would not make this the only guide.

In view of the fact that the Sultans will have nothing to do with the State Councils, it is advisable that an Advisory Council to the Sultan should be established in each State with appropriate functions and that such Council should be presided over by the Sultan. Its members should be appointed by the Sultan subject to the approval of the Governor.

The functions of that Advisory Council should be:

(a) To advise the Sultan on all matters affecting Mohammedan religion and Malay custom.

(b) To advise the Sultan on any other matter which the Resident Commissioner, with the approval of the Governor, refers to this Advisory Council.

As regards the functions of the State and Settlement Councils, paragraph 11 of the Secret Paper, quoted in paragraph 5 of this Memorandum, states:

"Subject to the new central authority, the several States and Settlements would be empowered to deal with such local affairs as may be devolved upon them by the central authority."

If by central authority is meant the Legislative Council of the Union of Malaya, I beg to differ because in my view that would unnecessarily restrict the functions of a State or Settlement Council.

I suggest that each State and Settlement Council should be empowered to legislate.

===== Page 328 =====
(a) On all matters which, in the opinion of the Governor-in-Council, are of a merely local or private nature in the State or Settlement.

(For instance, the Malayan Collieries Enactment, enacted by the State Council of Selangor, deals solely with the Malayan Collieries Ltd. building a private railway inside the State of Selangor.)

Before the Governor-in-Council decides whether a matter requiring legislation should be enacted by a State or Settlement Council, he must first be satisfied by a certificate signed by the Attorney-General that it is a fit and proper matter for legislation by such a Council.

Having so decided, the Clerk to Executive Council will sign a certificate to that effect.

(b) On all subjects in respect of which the Legislative Council of the Union of Malaya by law delegates the power of making laws to a State or Settlement Council.

(Laws made by a State or Settlement Council under this provision would be in the nature of rules or regulations etc. made under Ordinances passed by the Legislative Council of the Union of Malaya. I use the word "Ordinance" because I consider that it is the appropriate term to use for laws passed by the Legislative Council. The present word "Enactment" is more applicable to the legislative acts of a local body, and accordingly I suggest that the laws passed by State or Settlement Council should be termed "Enactments".)

As regards other business of the State and Settlement Councils, I suggest that they should be empowered to discuss questions of a purely local nature. Provision can be made in their constitutions restricting discussions on other business to matters of a local nature. Such restrictions can be achieved by a provision

===== Page 329 =====
Analogous to the usual clause contained in Instructions under the Sign Manual and Signet issued to a Governor, in which it is laid down that the Governor alone is entitled to submit questions to Executive Council. If Resident Commissioners are given similar powers, there should be no danger of discussions in State and Settlement Councils extending to subjects which extend beyond local matters.

9. A re-organisation of the Courts will be necessary consequent on the formation of a Union. Before discussing what form this re-organisation should take, it is desirable to set out briefly the present constitution of the Supreme Courts throughout Malaya.

The Supreme Court of the Colony is constituted by the Courts Ordinance (Cap. 10) and exercises within the Colony the same jurisdiction and authority as are held by His Majesty's High Court of Justice in England. Its Judges are appointed by His Majesty by Letters Patent under the Public Seal of the Colony. Hence those Judges are His Majesty's Judges functioning in the King's Courts.

The Supreme Court of the Federated Malay States is constituted by the Courts Enactment (Cap. 2) and comprises the Court of Appeal and the Courts of a Judge. The Court of a Judge has full criminal and civil jurisdiction. The Chief Justice and the other Judges are appointed jointly by the Rulers of the Federated Malay States and hence they are the Sultans' Judges and not Judges of His Majesty.

Under the Straits Settlements Courts Ordinance the Judges of the Federated Malay States are declared ex officio Judges of the Supreme Court of the Colony, and a similar law makes Judges of the Colony ex officio Judges of the Supreme Court of the Federated Malay States.

As regards appeals from the Supreme Court, in civil and criminal matters the Colony and the Federated Malay States each has its own Court of Appeal consisting of three or more Judges.

===== Page 330 =====
In practice, it is generally made up of the two Chief Justices and a puisne Judge.

I do not propose to go into the constitution of all the Courts of the Unfederated Malay States. I merely set out what is the position in the State of Johore under its Courts Enactment (Cap. 54). There, the Supreme Court is made up of the Court of Appeal and the Court of a Judge. The Judge stationed in Johore is appointed by the Sultan, and a provision of the Johore Courts Enactment makes the two Chief Justices and all the Judges of both the Colony and the Federated Malay States ex officio Judges of the State of Johore. As regards the Johore Court of Appeal, it is composed of two or more Judges and, in practice, the Chief Justice and one other Judge of the Colony sit.

In 1932, correspondence took place between the Governor and the Colonial Office regarding the establishment of a Supreme Court of Malaya, consisting of a Malayan Court of Appeal and a High Court of Justice for the Colony and for each of the Federated Malay States, and such other Malay States as desired to join. It was suggested that the Judges should consist of a Chief Justice (to be styled "Chief Justice of Malaya"), Appeal Judges and puisne Judges. At the time this proposal was made, one of the main objects was to create a stronger Court of Appeal since at that time the Chief Justice of the Colony was not ex officio a Judge of the Federated Malay States, with the result that in the Federated Malay States the Court of Appeal was either composed of the Chief Justice of the Federated Malay States and two Puisne Judges or, if the appeal was against a decision of the Chief Justice himself, it was heard before three puisne Judges. This state of affairs was quickly rectified by altering the law of the Federated Malay States in order to make the Chief Justice of the Colony an ex officio Judge of the Supreme Court of the Federated Malay States.

===== Page 331 =====
There was much opposition to the suggested judicial re-organisation. It was opposed by the then Acting Chief Justice, Federated Malay States, and also by the Federated Malay States Bar Committee. I was in Malaya at the time and know that most of the opposition was due to the feeling that if this judicial re-organisation came about with a single Chief Justice stationed in Singapore, the people of Singapore would have the ear of the Chief Justice, and the members of the Bar of the Federated Malay States would come a very bad second.

In the correspondence between the Governor and the Colonial Office, much was made of the fact that in both East and West Africa, Courts of Appeal have been set up for the purpose of hearing appeals from politically and legally distinct High Courts or Supreme Courts. This is true on paper, but it is not true, in East Africa for instance, to say that the composition of the Court of Appeal is any stronger than it was in Malaya after the law was amended making the Chief Justice of the Colony an ex officio Judge of the Supreme Court of the Federated Malay States. After that amendment of the law, the Court of Appeal was invariably composed of the two Chief Justices and one puisne Judge. From my experience in East Africa, the Court of Appeal there is very often composed of two Chief Justices and a puisne Judge.

In view of the fact that the Island of Singapore and the rest of Malaya are to be two separate entities, with separate Governments, I see no useful purpose in having a Supreme Court for the whole of Malaya.

I realise that some of the executive departments in the new constitution will be pan-Malayan, but the reason for this is to keep policy uniform throughout Malaya on vital matters affecting the whole Union. The Court and its Judges are not concerned with any question of policy.

===== Page 332 =====
Accordingly, I suggest that there should be a separate High Court of the Union of Malaya with a Chief Justice at its head. The term "High Court" is used because it appears to be the custom to reserve the term "Supreme Court" for Crown Colonies. The Chief Justice will have sufficient work to do in reorganising the judicial system of all the Malay States and the two Settlements of Penang and Malacca, without having any responsibility for the Island of Singapore. In the first instance, a lot of his time will be taken up in travelling in order to get acquainted with local conditions, particularly in the Unfederated Malay States.

In addition to the Chief Justice, there must be a number of Judges of the High Court of the Union of Malaya stationed at various centres throughout the country. I need not go into the question of how many puisne Judges will be required or where they should be stationed.

In accordance with previous practice, the Chief Justice and the puisne Judges of the Supreme Court in Singapore should be declared ex officio Judges of the High Court of the Union of Malaya, and vice versa as regards the Chief Justice and puisne Judges of the High Court of the Union of Malaya. In practice, the Court of Appeal, whether sitting in the Union of Malaya or in Singapore, will invariably be composed of the two Chief Justices and one puisne Judge. I see no reason for creating a separate Court of Appeal which would mean the appointment of Appeal Judges with consequential extra expense.

This suggested constitution of the High Court of the Union of Malaya means that the judicial system of those Malay States which provide for Malay Judges and Appeal Courts composed of unqualified Malay Judges and a British Adviser (e.g. Perlis and Trengganu) must go. All these unqualified Judges must be replaced by qualified personnel and all appeals must go to the Court of Appeal of the Union of Malaya.

===== Page 333 =====
Death sentences in the Union of Malaya should be considered by the Governor-in-Council and not by the Malay Rulers.

I might say here, in order to give a fuller picture of this judicial system, I consider that the District Judge system in force in the Colony should be applied to the Union of Malaya, and that these appointments of District Judges should be made from the Colonial Legal Service. In fact, I think it is a matter for consideration whether District Courts should be given more extensive jurisdiction than they now possess in the Straits Settlements.

With regard to appeals from the Court of Appeal, at the present time appeals to the Privy Council are only provided for in the Colony, the Federated Malay States, and in the State of Johore. In the Colony, there is an appeal to the King-in-Council as of right by virtue of the Charter and the constitution of the Straits Settlements as a Crown Colony. The Malay States, being merely protected States, are not subject to Orders-in-Council except at the request of the Rulers thereof.

In 1906, the four Sultans of the Federated Malay States requested the King-in-Council to entertain appeals from the Federated Malay States Court of Appeal in civil matters and in pursuance of such request the Federated Malay States Order-in-Council, 1906, was promulgated giving effect to the wishes of the Sultans. That Order-in-Council was revoked and replaced by the Federated Malay States Appeal Order-in-Council in 1912 consequent upon the enactment of what is now section 33 of the Courts Enactment (Cap. 2) which reads as follows:

"From any judgment or order of the Court of Appeal in any civil matter an appeal may be made to His Britannic Majesty in Council subject to such rules and regulations as may from time to time be prescribed by order of His said Majesty in Council."

The same procedure was followed in Johore in 1921.

The new constitution should provide for appeals from the Court of Appeal of the Union of Malaya to the Privy Council.

===== Page 334 =====
10. Having dealt with the constitutional set up as regards the Government of the Union of Malaya, its Executive and Legislative Councils, the State and Settlement Councils and the Courts, it is now appropriate to discuss the question of the transfer to the Union Government of the property etc. belonging to the various States and Settlements.

As the constitution of the Union of Malaya is to be that of a Union and not a Federation, and since the local legislatures in the States and Settlements will be completely subordinate to the central government, and also because the Sultans will be no longer sovereign Rulers but will collectively form an Advisory Council to the Governor, I feel that there is no room for any compromise in the transference of State and Settlement property to the Union Government and in the latter assuming full liability for State and Settlement debts. It appears to me that if the new constitution is to be a Union let it be one in practice and not merely on paper. Accordingly I have been largely guided by the provisions of the South Africa Act, 1909, in making the following suggestions. I am well aware that the State of Johore is wealthy compared with the other Unfederated Malay States, and that in creating a Union the State of Johore will contribute into the common pool assets greater in extent than those made by other Malay States. Although it will be difficult to persuade the Sultan of Johore to see reason on this, it cannot be avoided, because to have an effective Union there can be no exceptions.

It is not possible in a general Memorandum of this kind to provide for every particular matter in the transfer of State and Settlement property to the Union Government, and I merely set out below the main subjects to which consideration must be given.

(a) Revenues.

Under the present system in the Federated Malay States certain revenues are appropriated to finance Federal Services and other revenues remain State. In the new constitution we are not, as stated above, endeavouring

===== Page 335 =====
To create a greater federation, the aim is a Union and therefore there is no necessity for deciding what revenues shall be retained by the various States and Settlements and what shall go to the Union Government. All revenues, from whatever source arising, over which the States had powers of appropriation at the time of the establishment of the Union must vest in the Union Government. The financial experts may consider it desirable to appoint a commission after the establishment of the Union, to enquire into the financial arrangements which should exist between the Union Government and the various States and Settlements.

(b) Transfer of State and Settlement property.

All cash, bankers' balances, securities for moneys etc. belonging to each State and Settlement at the establishment of the Union must be transferred to the Union Government. If, however, the balance of any funds raised at the establishment of the Union has been raised by law for any special purpose in any State or Settlement, the Union Government must appropriate such balance for the special purpose for which it was raised.

(c) State land, mines and minerals.

By section 8 of the Federated Malay States Land Code (Cap. 138) and by similar provisions in the land laws of the Unfederated Malay States, the entire property in, and control of, State land is vested solely in the Ruler of the State.

As regards the alienation of State land, each British Resident in the Federated Malay States is empowered to alienate it on behalf of the Ruler of the State, and in the Unfederated Malay States although by law the Sultan in Council is the authority having the power to alienate State land, in fact the Sultan in Council has delegated such power to other bodies and [POSSIBLY MISSING].

===== Page 336 =====
Persons. At one time, I thought it might be unnecessary to amend the law whereby State land is vested in the Ruler of the State, but having read and thought much about a unified constitution, I am of the opinion that all State land, public works, mines and minerals, and all property, whether moveable or immoveable, and all rights of whatever description belonging to the several States and Settlements must be transferred to the Union Government, which will take such property subject to any encumbrances thereon.

(d) Railways, Ports and Harbours.

With regard to the Railways, the Federated Malay States Government owns the entire railway system of Malaya, with the exception of the Johore State Railway, which is leased from Johore. The latest lease with Johore was executed on 30th November 1932, and provides that the Federated Malay States Government shall hold a lease for the Johore State Railway until 31st December 1953. Under that lease, the Federated Malay States Government pays to Johore a token sum of one dollar per year in advance and also a certain percentage of the net revenue on the working of the Federated Malay States Railway System. If there is a deficit on such a working, Johore gets nothing, but, on the other hand, Johore does not have to stand any proportionate share of any deficit.

Under the new constitution, the whole railway must be transferred to the Union Government, which means that all the capital sunk in the Railway by the Federated Malay States Government and also by the Johore Government accrues to the benefit of the Union Government.

In recent years, it cannot be said that Johore has been making much profit from their share in the

===== Page 337 =====
Federated Malay States Railway System, because, after 1931, the running of the railway has generally resulted in a deficit, and by the end of 1934 the Railway Renewals Reserve Fund had been depleted to such an extent that it only stood at 87,478,164.

Hence, as regards the transfer of the railway to the Union Government, it means a great sacrifice by the Federated Malay States Government, with a correspondingly lesser one by the Johore Government, and a resultant gain to the remainder of the States and Settlements forming the Union.

With the exception of the port and harbour property at Penang, Prai and Butterworth which is vested in the Penang Harbour Board by section 30(1)(c) of the Straits Settlements Ports Ordinance (Cap. 149), all ports and harbours in the various States and Settlements must be transferred to the Government of the Union of Malaya.

(e) State and Settlement debts.

The Union of Malaya Government having assumed ownership of all the property formerly belonging to the various States and Settlements must, in equity, assume liability for all their debts, and the interest thereon, as they stand at the time of the establishment of the Union.

(f) Financial arrangements between the Straits Settlements and the Government of the Union of Malaya.

Since Penang and Malacca are part of the Straits Settlements and under the new constitution they will be transferred from the jurisdiction of the Government of the Straits Settlements to that of the Government of the Union of Malaya, agreement must be reached as to what is to be the division of the assets and liabilities of these two Settlements.

===== Page 338 =====
Between the new Government of the Island of Singapore and the Government of the Union of Malaya, presumably this matter will be decided by agreement between the two Governments.

11. At the establishment of the Union, all the laws of each particular State and Settlement will be in force, and until the Legislative Council of the Union of Malaya begins to function, there will not be in existence any Union Legislation. Accordingly, the constitution itself must provide that all the laws in force in the several States and Settlements at the establishment of the Union shall continue in force in the respective States and Settlements until repealed or amended by the Legislature of the Union of Malaya.

If the judicial system as suggested in paragraph 9 of this Memorandum is adopted, provision must be made for the pending cases and appeals being taken over by the new Courts from the old Courts.

As regards legislation after the establishment of the Union, one difficulty occurs to me. All the Malay States have not reached an equal stage of development, e.g., Trengganu, Kelantan and Perlis are behind Kedah and much behind the four Federated Malay States and Johore. In these backward States there is no legislation on several highly technical subjects, e.g., bills of exchange, and it will not be desirable to legislate on such subjects in these backward States for some time to come.

12. I have carried out a certain amount of research as to whether the Courts should be given express power to interpret the constitution or whether the granting of such express power is unnecessary.

I do not think there can be any doubt that the Courts must have power to interpret the constitution should the occasion arise.

===== Page 339 =====
In South Africa and Canada there is no law expressly conferring power on the Courts to interpret the constitution and yet numerous decided cases show that there is no doubt that the Courts in those two Dominions have assumed such jurisdiction.

On the other hand, in Australia, section 76 of the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act provides (inter alia) that Parliament may make laws conferring jurisdiction on the High Court on any matter arising under the constitution or involving its interpretation.

By section 30 of the Commonwealth Judiciary Act, 1903 - 1934, the High Court is given original jurisdiction in all matters arising under the constitution and involving its interpretation. Thus, in Australia the Federal High Court has been given express powers to interpret the constitution.

In the Colonies the most useful case I can find on this matter is Jerusalem - Jaffa District Governor v Suleiman Murra (1926) A.C. 321, in which it was held by the Privy Council that it was the right and duty of the Supreme Court of Palestine to consider whether an Ordinance was consistent with the terms of the Mandate.

I have not had time to go into this matter in detail but incline to the view that, for the avoidance of doubts, it is preferable to include express provision in the constitution empowering the Courts to interpret it, and express provision must be included to the effect that, in case of conflict, Ordinances of the Union of Malaya must prevail over Enactments of State and Settlement Councils.

13. Paragraph 15 of the Secret Paper states -

"The complete details of the application of this policy and in particular the detailed measures to be designed for the creation of a self-governing institution can only be worked out on the spot after re-occupation in the light of the prevailing conditions."

Knowing the mentality of the Sultans and the necessity for getting the new treaties executed as quickly as possible after the re-occupation of Malaya, I consider that the new

===== Page 340 =====
The constitution must be in complete draft form before we return to Malaya. The new treaties are merely the machinery by means of which a new constitution can be created, and it is the new constitution which will interest the Sultans. It would be fatal to let it appear that we had no cut and dried scheme for that constitution on our return. The less delay in negotiating the new treaties the better chance we have of the Sultans agreeing to them. They will not agree unless we are in a position to tell them exactly what our plans are regarding the new constitution. Therefore I urge that the new treaties and the new constitution should be in complete draft form before the re-occupation of Malaya.

Conclusion.

14. The constitution as outlined in this Memorandum was originally submitted to the Colonial Office on 15th November, 1944, as representing the views of the writer only.

Since that date discussions have taken place between representatives of the Colonial Office and of C.A. (M.P.U.). As a result of those discussions a few amendments of minor importance have been made in the Memorandum as originally drafted, and I think that the Memorandum as it now stands represents the considered views of those representatives of the Colonial Office and of C.A. (M.P.U.) who read the Memorandum in its original form and attended those discussions.

C.A. (M.P.U.), 38 Hyde Park Gate, LONDON, S.W.7.
H.C. WILLAN

8th March, 1945.

Distribution:

Colonial Office 1 - 20
Major-General Hone 21 - 40
Colonel Newboult 41
Colonel McKerron 42
Mr. O'Connor 43
Colonel Willan 44 - 50

===== Page 341 =====
APPENDIX

MALAY, CHINESE AND INDIAN POPULATION OF MALAYA.

1931 CENSUS

Area          Square Miles    Malays       % of Total    Chinese       % of Total    Indians       % of Total

Singapore        217          71,177         12.5         421,821        74.3         51,019         9.0
Penang           388          118,832        33.1         176,518        49.0         58,020        16.1
Malacca          720          95,307         51.0         65,179         34.9         23,238        12.4
STRAITS SETTLEMENTS  1,325     285,316        25.6         663,518        59.6         132,277       11.9
Perak            7,983        272,546        35.6         325,527        42.5         159,152       20.8
Selangor         3,156        122,868        23.1         241,351        45.3         155,924       29.2
Negri Sembilan   2,550        87,195         37.3         92,371         39.5         50,100        21.4
Pahang           14,000       111,122        61.7         52,291         29.0         14,820         8.2
FEDERATED MALAY STATES  27,689   593,731       34.7         711,540        41.5         379,996       22.2
Johore           7,500        234,422        46.4         215,076        41.4         51,038        10.1
Kedah            3,800        286,262        66.6         78,415         18.2         50,824        12.0
Perlis           316          39,831         80.9         6,500          13.2          966          2.0
Kelantan         5,870        330,774        91.2         17,612          4.9          6,752        1.9
Trengganu        6,000        164,564        91.5         13,254          7.4          1,371        0.8
UNFEDERATED MALAY STATES  23,486  1,055,853     69.2         330,857        21.7         110,951        7.3
Brunei           2,500        26,972         89.5         2,683           8.9          377          1.3
Unlocated        149          10.0            794          53.1           408         27.3
MALAYA           55,000       1,962,021      44.7         1,709,392      39.0         624,009       14.2


===== Page 342 =====
MEMORANDUM RE NEW MALAYAN CONSTITUTION

Re draft Note (as yet unfinished) on the above mentioned Memorandum - I suggest paragraph 1 thereof should be redrafted to read -

"The War Cabinet has approved, for planning purposes, the policy of establishing after the war a Malayan Union which will consist of the nine Malay States and the Settlements of Penang and Malacca, and that this shall be achieved by the negotiation of fresh agreements with the Rulers which shall cede full jurisdiction to His Majesty in their territories. Attached to this note is a memorandum prepared in the Malayan Planning Unit and revised in consultation with the Colonial Office, which contains detailed proposals for the framing of the post-war Malayan constitution and which deals with the practical application of the policy approved by the War Cabinet. It is felt that each of the proposals contained in the memorandum is implicit in the policy itself, and is inherent in the very idea of a Malayan Union (as opposed to an extended Federation of Malay States)."

The reason for this suggested redraft is to make it clear that my Memorandum containing proposals for the new Malayan Constitution is founded on the policy contained in the War Cabinet Paper and clarity on this point will be achieved by commencing your Note with a reference to the policy approved by the War Cabinet.

G.E.J.Gent, Esq., C.M.G., D.S.O., O.B.E., M.C.,
Colonial Office,
Downing Street, S.W.1.

P.T.O.

===== Page 343 =====
2. Paragraph 6 of your Note is most important because it emphasizes that the officers of the CAS(M), particularly the CCAO, DCCAOs, and SCAOs, must be very careful as to their relationship not only with the legitimate Sultans but also with any claimants for the post of Sultan prior to the arrival of Sir Harold Macmichael in Malaya. Indeed, that paragraph emphasizes that all military authorities in Malaya must be most careful as to their relationships with the legitimate Rulers and those claimants during the initial stages of the Military Administration of Malaya. I presume, therefore, that prior to the initial re-occupation of Malaya the SAC will receive from the War Office, at the instigation of the Colonial Office, a specific Directive on this ticklish matter which will enable him to give the necessary instructions to the members of his staff as to the attitude to be adopted on the relationship of all military officers towards the legitimate Sultans and the claimants mentioned above.

3. Apart from the two matters mentioned above I have no other comments on your draft Note.

Yours sincerely,

H. S. William

===== Page 344 =====
SECRET
12th March, 1945.

My dear Patrick,

Very many thanks for your note of the 10th of March.

This will be most timely for a talk which Duncan (our Legal Adviser) and I are to have with MacMichael tomorrow, and I look forward to the further information which you promise.

Yours sincerely,

(Sgd.) G.E.J. Gent.

P.J. Patrick, Esq., C.S.I.

===== Page 345 =====
Dear Gent,

I will let you have in the course of a day or two a reply to the point you have put to me about securing jurisdiction for the Crown in the territories of Malay Rulers. I may say at once that there has been no occasion for requiring an Indian Ruler to cede comprehensive jurisdiction over an extensive area in very recent times. Ordinarily, cessions have been needed only to enable cantonments to be established, and there is express provision for this in our Treaty with Mysore, 1913, art. 8 (Aitchison Vol. IX page 309) which enables us to maintain a big Civil and Military Station at Bangalore.

A much more extensive cession of jurisdiction was obtained from Hyderabad in Berar, now incorporated in the Central Provinces, by way of a lease in perpetuity on payment of Rs. 25 lakhs p.a. by an Agreement of 1902 (Aitchison Vol. IX page 165), this being in liquidation of Hyderabad's debt to the British Government for maintenance of troops for the State's protection.

Similarly, other of the dominions of the Khan of Kolet which today form the greater part of the Province of British Baluchistan were made over to be administered by the British in full jurisdiction in a series of engagements (see Aitchison Vol. XI Baluchistan Nos.: XXVI and XXVIII) by way of a perpetual lease in return for money consideration.

Again

===== Page 346 =====
Again, there have been very numerous cessions of jurisdiction, criminal, civil, and when this was not forgotten, fiscal, over stretches of railway line constructed through State territory.

It would, I suppose, be formally contended in all these cases that the cessions were acquired by agreement, the Rulers accepting the advantages accruing to them from the arrangements. But in the background there always loomed the claim enunciated by Canning after the Mutiny to have established British paramountcy over all India, a claim, of course, resting on superior force.

I doubt if my more considered reflections will supply you with a more soothing formula, more closely associated with international law. After all, our jurisdiction in the China Treaty Ports and in Persia, etc., was acquired in much the same way.

I do not remember any case in which we have extruded a Ruler from the whole of the administration in the whole of his territories and have called this accession of jurisdiction. When that has happened, it has been called annexation!

Yours sincerely,

(Sgd.) P.J. Patrick.

===== Page 347 =====
10th March 1945

Dear Gent,

I will let you hear in the course of a day or two a reply to the point you have put to me about securing jurisdiction for the Crown in the Territory of the Holy Ruler. I may say at once that there has been no occasion for requiring any Indian Ruler to cease confederation jurisdiction over an extension area in very recent time. Ordinarily, centres have been needed only to establish conventions to be

===== Page 348 =====
Established, and there is express provision for this in our Treaty with Mysore, 1913, art. 8 (Mitchell Vol. IX page 309) valid enclosed in it, maintain a big civil and military presence at Bengal.

A much more extensive census of jurisdiction was obtained from the derated in Bengal, was incorporated in the Central Province, by way of a lease in perpetuity on a sum of Rs. 25 Lakhs p.o.Iz on agreement of 1902 (Mitchell Vol. IX page 165), it being in liquidation of Hydrotadi deltoi to the British Government for maintenance of troops for the State protection.

Specially, area of the services of the Khan of Kolot-Wick today from the greater part of the practice of British Bolceliter were made cont.[POSSIBLY MISSING]

===== Page 349 =====
Administrated by the British in full jurisdiction in a series of engagements (for Atticier Vol. XI Bellchier has; XXV. old XXVIII) a way of a perpetual lease return for many considerations. Again then can be very humorous, centres of jurisdiction, crucible, civil and other cannot be forgotten fixed, and strata of railway line constituted through Great Territory. It will support, formerly curtailed in all these cases, that the census was expired by agreement, 11. Rule occupying the advantage according 1. then from the arrangements. But in the background there always would the claim constituted by

===== Page 350 =====
Carling often during 1:40 am established British possession over all India, a class of corn resting on superior force.

A lot if we are not considered reflects will supply you with a lot soothing familie, nor closely associated with international law. After all our jurisdiction in the China Treats Ports and in Pornic is required in and the same way.

I do not remember any certain in Law extended a Rules from the not of the administration in M. Chot of his Territory and Law called this a centre of jurisdiction, when that law lectured it Law been called an extent.

Yours sincerely,

P. Matrick.

===== Page 351 =====
My dear Patrick,

You have been so good as to allow me to bother you with the matter of Sir Harold MacMichael's treaty-making mission to the Malay States when the place is liberated. Can you help me further with your great experience of relations with Indian States, viz. His Majesty has no jurisdiction in any of the Malay States at present. The object of the new treaties with each of the Rulers will be the cession by the Ruler of full jurisdiction to His Majesty. If all or any of the Rulers flatly decline to sign a fresh treaty to this effect, what ultimate authority can we invoke to justify our de facto and de jure exercise of such jurisdiction? Clearly we can act in a drastic way, e.g. by annexation; also, I suppose we could, at any rate in cases where the throne of any State has become vacant during Japanese occupation by death of the Ruler, hold up any new appointment of Sultan until we can get what we want either from the principal candidate for the throne or the next best on the list.

But in your experience with any comparable Indian States in which His Majesty has any jurisdiction, can you give us any advice as to what authority we can rely upon to justify our going ahead with what we intend to do, regardless of a Ruler's refusal to sign the requisite agreement?

Yours sincerely,

(Sgd.) G.E.J. Gent.

P.J. Patrick, Esq., C.S.I.

===== Page 352 =====
Attached to this Note is a memorandum, prepared by the Malayan Planning Unit and revised in consultation with the Colonial Office, which contains detailed proposals for the framing of the post-war Malayan Constitution. The War Cabinet has approved, for planning purposes, the policy of establishing after the war a Malayan Union which will consist of the nine Malay States and the Settlements of Penang and Malacca, and that this shall be achieved by the negotiation of fresh Agreements with the Rulers which shall cede full jurisdiction to His Majesty in their territories. The memorandum now submitted deals with the practical application of that policy. It is felt that each of the proposals contained in the memorandum is implicit in the policy itself, and is inherent in the very idea of a Malayan Union (as opposed to an extended Federation of Malay States).

2. The memorandum has been discussed in draft with Sir Harold MacMichael, and in consultation with him the following points have emerged, which may not be suitable for inclusion in the memorandum itself, but which it is nevertheless desirable to bring to the attention of the Secretary of State.

3. The cession of jurisdiction by each Ruler to His Majesty is accepted as a necessary step, but it is one which is capable of being misrepresented by ignorant, and still more by mischievous, people as a wanton breach of faith and an act of naked imperialism. If the negotiations are allowed to become "bogged" by argument and counter-argument the chances diminish of our policy being represented in the right light from the outset, and the opportunities for misrepresentation will increase.

===== Page 353 =====
This cardinal consideration leads to several conclusions.

4. The timing of the negotiations with the Malay Rulers is of the utmost importance. The missing of opportunities through inadequate forethought or insufficient boldness of outlook, leading inevitably to uncertainty of touch and consequent hesitation, would not only jeopardise the negotiations themselves, but would have other ill-effects which might be very far-reaching. Consequently, the work of elaborating the proposed new Constitution and drafting the necessary Instruments should be achieved as rapidly as possible. Once the present draft memorandum has been approved by the Secretary of State, with such alterations as he desires to make, the drafting of an Order in Council establishing the new Constitution should be begun immediately.

5. The actual Treaties with the Rulers will, of course, be very short, and will merely enshrine the cession of jurisdiction to His Majesty. They will not go into the consequential details of what His Majesty will do with the jurisdiction when acquired. Nevertheless, these consequences will be of the greatest interest to the Malay Rulers, and it may be assumed that they will fundamentally affect their willingness to sign the Treaties. While there is room for argument as to whether the actual draft Order in Council should be shown to them or not, it is important that we should be able to explain our proposals to them in a clear, comprehensive and convincing manner (and in a Malay language version).

6. Equally important, if we are to attain our objective of a smooth and rapid settlement, will be the method and procedure of handling individual Rulers both before and during the negotiations. It has been agreed with S.A.C., S.E.A that the Military authorities shall not be involved in the negotiations, which are to be left to Sir Harold MacMichael. Nevertheless, it is essential that the Military authorities should be thoroughly acquainted with the situation, and should avoid any action which may subsequently embarrass Sir Harold's

===== Page 354 =====
Task. In particular, they should not formally recognise any claimant in any of the nine States as being the legitimate Ruler of that State, even if he has held such a position uninterruptedly since before the Japanese occupation. This will mean considerable vigilance, since claimants may be expected to try and establish their position at the earliest possible moment and by all possible means. It will no doubt be necessary for the Military authorities to use the de facto authority of this or that Malay personage in each area in order to achieve their essential objectives of maintenance of security, prevention of disease and unrest, distribution of supplies, etc.; but it is essential that none of the Rulers should have been placed by the Military in a securely established position by the time when Sir Harold arrives in Malaya. In the first place, a recognised Malay Ruler who refused to sign a new Treaty might have to be deposed (an extremely inconvenient course, to say the least); and in the second place, if any of the Rulers feel that the ground is firm under their feet, they will unquestionably be more likely to adopt a non-cooperative, obstructive, and non-possumus attitude. They must realise that for their reinstatement their willingness to fall in with the policy of H.M.G. will be an indispensable condition. This does not mean, of course, that H.M.G. will be prepared to recognise as a Ruler of any of the States whoever is "prepared to sign on the dotted line". Such a course might mean the acceptance in some or all cases of the most worthless candidate and this again would open the door to reasonable criticism and be, indeed, a poor beginning to the history of the new Malaya. In the event of an otherwise worthy claimant being unwilling to follow the accepted policy of H.M.G., great efforts would doubtless be made to persuade him, before drastic steps were taken. But it must be recognised that in the last resort

===== Page 355 =====
Resort a "potential" Ruler who remained adamant might have to be displaced in favour of the best alternative candidate; and no Ruler should therefore be officially recognised before the negotiations are concluded.

7. For the rest, the Military authorities can be of great assistance to Sir Harold when he starts his work. For the reasons already given, there should be no unduly protracted delay in his arrival, after the liberation of the Peninsula. On the other hand, it would be a mistake if he were to appear on the scene immediately. There should be a brief period of, say, one month, during which the Military Administration would have time to assess the position in each of the States. They could then advise Sir Harold, on his arrival, as to the "candidate" in each State whose claims and conduct entitle him in their view to be the chosen instrument for the negotiations and the local throne. In many cases, the choice would probably be obvious. Sir Harold would then pursue his negotiations, proceeding in each case according to the established local custom. (The customs of the various States are being examined, and he will be provided with the facts before his departure). Thus, in some States it may be necessary for the new Treaty to be signed by certain of the State Chiefs as well as by the Ruler himself. The Ruler must be recognised before he actually signs the Treaty since the signature of the State Ruler is necessary; but he should be firmly committed to sign (perhaps by initialling a draft after obtaining whatever approval of Chiefs is required by the custom of his State) before recognition takes place.

8. Then again, if the negotiations are to result in that speedy settlement at which we should aim, it will be important that Sir Harold MacMichael should have plenipotentiary powers to negotiate on behalf of H.M.G. so that, having worked the Rulers (or "potential" Rulers) up to the point where they are ready to sign, he will be able to clinch the business then and there. If at that point, or

===== Page 356 =====
At an earlier stage in the proceedings, he has to take refuge in expressions of uncertainty or doubt on issues of vital moment, and to refer home various points raised, this will throw open the door to conditions, qualifications, and second thoughts on the part of the Rulers, as a result of which the opportunity of any (and certainly of a rapid) settlement may be lost.

9. Finally, Sir Harold has represented that his task will be greatly eased if he is able to say something reassuring to the Malays regarding the degree of support to be accorded to their own position vis-à-vis the Chinese. It is true that under the proposals for Malayan Union citizenship, every Malay will automatically achieve citizenship, while only a proportion of Chinese will do so. This is an argument which can be legitimately used to show that the Malays will not be deserted by H.M.G. under the new policy, although our plans embody a belated recognition and regularising of the reasonable rights of those non-Malays who have definitely chosen to make their homes in Malaya, and those plans would in fact go far to safeguard the Malay position in its political aspects to a greater extent than could be said of our policy in the past. The full strength of this argument, however, may not be apparent to those with whom it will be used, and Sir Harold hopes that it may be backed up by others.

10. For instance it is assumed that he will have every warrant for promising that particular attention will be given to the education of Malays and their training in the field of local government. He also suggests that it would be both justifiable and helpful if he could point to a forward policy of encouraging, or at least facilitating, the immigration of Malays from the Netherlands East Indies as a counterpoise to the immigration of Chinese and Indians. The Colonial Office is already in touch with the Foreign Office, with a view to an approach being made to the Dutch Government on this

===== Page 357 =====
Very point. If the Dutch response is favourable, it may be possible to go a long way towards meeting this point; though the need of avoiding any overt discrimination against Chinese and Indians will, it is fully recognised, have to be carefully watched.

11. Above all the question must be faced of the course to be followed if the Rulers, or any of them, flatly decline to sign new Treaties. For reasons suggested in paragraph 6 above it will not be practicable simply to refuse recognition of the recalcitrant party or parties and select more pliable instruments. It is to be assumed, on the other hand, that H.M.G. will not on this account jettison their policy in respect either of those States which refuse assent to it, or, in desperation, of all. What, then, are the ultimate sanctions applicable? It may be impossible at this stage to formulate procedure, step by step, with precision and exactitude, but for purpose of negotiation, it is necessary to succeed (and particularly so in dealing with an Eastern people) that the broad lines to be followed in such an eventuality should be known both to Sir Harold who must be sure of his ground and to the several Rulers and Chiefs who must be left in no doubt as to H.M.G.'s definite intention. If once it is clear beyond any doubt that the policy decided upon will be carried out, and doubt is at the same time removed as to the way in which this can and will be done, the issue is made a clear cut one and the chances of protracted obstruction are minimised.

12. H.M.G.'s decision on future policy for Malaya offers a bright hope for the efficiency, security and the promotion of self-government in that country, and it offers a safeguard for the political future of the Malays themselves since they will be the most numerous element in the citizenship. It is therefore imperative that a satisfactory answer should be found for the question of ultimate sanctions as, if left unsolved, it may wreck the possibility of achieving that policy.

13. The sanctions which it is possible to consider appear to be the following:

(a) annexation of any State whose ruler refuses to cede jurisdiction;

===== Page 358 =====
(b) refusal to recognise as Ruler any claimant who refuses to do so and the acceptance and recognition of the next best on the list of claimants who will agree to fall in with H.M.G's policy.

Of these, the first course can be expected to create severe local reactions amongst the Malays throughout the Peninsula, and to be adversely criticised by world opinion. The second would expose us to criticism inside and outside Malaya, though its degree might depend upon the extent to which the chosen ruler was merely a worthless puppet. This course might not be a complete solution if in any State there were no possible Malay candidate willing to accept our terms.

===== Page 359 =====
My dear Gent,

Reference my second draft of the Future Constitution for the Malay Peninsula, there are two matters which I promised to pursue further. They are:

(a) The question of the membership of Executive Council, Legislative Council and other local bodies being restricted to Malayan Union Citizens - see bottom of page 23.

(b) Whether the port and harbour property at Penang is vested by law in the Penang Harbour Board - see middle of page 37.

2. Re (a) - Paragraph 8 of the Malayan Union Citizenship Directive reads as follows:

"Save with the consent of the Governor

(a) no person who is not a Malayan Union citizen should be admitted to the Public Service, and

(b) the appointment of unofficial persons to be members of local councils and similar bodies should be confined to Malayan Union citizens."

As regards officials who are not Malayan Union citizens, they will already be members of the Public Service and paragraph 8(b) of the Directive will not apply to them, therefore they are adequately covered.

G.E.J.Gent, Esq., C.M.G., D.S.O., O.B.E., M.C.,
Colonial Office,
Downing Street, S.W.1.

P.T.O.

===== Page 360 =====
As regards unofficials, I do not anticipate any difficulty. Most of them whom the Governor desires to appoint to Executive Council, Legislative Council, etc., will be Malayan Union Citizens automatically by virtue of paragraph 2 of the Directive, i.e., they will have resided in Malaya for a period of 10 years out of the previous 15 years, the period of Japanese occupation being disregarded. As regards the few, they will be very few, who on account of insufficient residence in Malaya are not qualified automatically to become Malayan Union citizens, the Governor has full discretion under paragraph 8 of the Directive to consent to their appointment to Executive Council, Legislative Council, etc.

Paragraph 8(b) of the Malayan Union Citizenship Directive is merely a transitory provision which will become obsolete after the Citizenship Order in Council has been in force just over 5 years. I say that because I presume the policy will be not to appoint any unofficial to be a member of Executive Council, Legislative Council, etc., who is unwilling to apply for Malayan Union Citizenship under paragraph 3 of the Citizenship Directive.

Hence, in my view, there is no need to consider this matter further as no difficulty arises.

3. Re (b) - The relevant law on the subject is contained in the Straits Settlements Ports Ordinance (Cap 149), which by section 30(1)(c) vests the port and harbour property at Penang, Prai and Butterworth (the property is more particularly described on pages 114 and 115 of Volume IV of the revised edition of the Laws of the Straits Settlements) in the Penang Harbour Board.

On account of this the last five lines of sub-paragraph (d) of paragraph 10 on page 37 of my Memorandum should be amended to read as follows:

"With the exception of the port and harbour property at Penang, Prai and Butterworth which is vested in the Penang Harbour Board by section 30(1)(c) of the Straits Settlements Ports Ordinance (Cap 149), all ports and harbours in the various States and Settlements must be transferred to the Government of the Union of Malaya."

Yours sincerely,

[Signature]

===== Page 361 =====
The War Office,
C.A. (M.P.U.)
38 Hyde Park Gate,
S.W.7.

22nd January, 1945.

My dear Gent,

Thank you for your letter of the 19th January.

I am sorry but we have not got any spare copies of the memorandum and amendments and are too short of typists to be able to do a further couple of copies for you.

Yours sincerely,

H.S. William

G.E.J. Gent, Esq., C.M.G., D.S.O., O.B.E.,
M.C.,
Colonial Office,
Downing Street, S.W.1.

===== Page 362 =====
19th January, 1945.

My dear Willan,

Very many thanks for the four copies of the memorandum (your letter 19th January - RS/13). I will ask Bourdillon to fix up a meeting when we can all go through this again and, subject to any further revision, we can then get a good many copies rolled off.

I am going to show Sir H. MacMichael a copy, as agreed with General Hone, but will not do this immediately. If you are running off extra copies, I should be grateful for another pair.

Yours sincerely,

Colonel H.C. Willan, M.C.

===== Page 363 =====
The War Office,
C.A. (M.P.U.)
38 Hyde Park Gate,
S.W. 7.

Reference TS/13 19th January, 1945.

My dear Gent,

I forward herewith four copies of those pages of my Memorandum on the Future Constitution for the Malay Peninsula which contain amendments consequential on the discussions held at the Meetings which took place on the 5th, 11th and 20th December, 1944. I also forward explanatory notes as to how the alterations have been shown.

You will note that there are no alterations on page 28 but this page had to be retyped because in my first draft part of the typescript, which now appears on the bottom of page 27, appeared on page 28.

Yours sincerely,

Hs. William

G.E.J. Gent, Esq., C.M.G., D.S.O., O.B.E., M.C., Colonial Office,
S.W. 1.

===== Page 364 =====
EXPLANATORY NOTES:

1. Underlined portions are amendments to Willan's original memorandum dated 15th November, 1944.

2. The page numbers of the redraft correspond, page by page, with the page numbers of the original draft, and they should be substituted in place of the corresponding pages of that original draft, thus giving a complete Second Draft.

3. ( ) denotes a deletion from the original memorandum.

===== Page 365 =====
FUTURE CONSTITUTION FOR MALAY PENINSULA.

1. In the Far Cabinet Secret Paper CMB(AA) dated 14th January, 1944, the Secretary of State for the Colonies sets out, in general terms, the future constitutional policy for British Colonial Territories in South East Asia. It is clear that as regards Malaya the aim is -

(a) A separate Government for Singapore Island.

(b) The Union of the four Federated Malay States, the five Unfederated Malay States and the Settlements of Penang and Malacca.

2. Before discussing a new constitutional policy for Malaya it is as well to state briefly what is the present constitution.

Malaya is divided into three parts -

(a) The Straits Settlements, a Crown Colony, for which His Majesty is able to legislate under the Straits Settlements Act, 1866, and the British Settlements Act, 1897.

(b) The four Malay States of Perak, Selangor, Negri Sembilan and Pahang over which His Majesty has no powers under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act. These States formed themselves into a Federation in 1896, and in 1909 a Federal Council was established which enacted legislation having the force of law throughout the Federation.

(c) The five Unfederated Malay States of Johore, Kedah, Kelantan, Trengganu and Perlis. Each of these States is independent and His Majesty has no powers under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act over any of them. Each such State has its own legislature, namely the Ruler in State Council.

All the nine Malay States are bound to Great Britain by treaties which date from 1874, in the case of Perak, to 1930, in the case of Perlis. The provisions of these treaties follow the same general lines, namely that each Malay Ruler shall accept a British officer whose advice shall be asked

===== Page 366 =====
In short, as Bagehot has stated, a Second Chamber "Besides independence to revise judicially and power to revise effectively, has leisure to revise intellectually." The Sultans, either individually or collectively, do not possess the necessary qualifications to perform effectively the real functions of a Second Chamber and on this account, and on account of the difficulties I have just mentioned, I am satisfied that any such Second Chamber is impracticable. In any case, it would be impolitic to attempt to find it a place within the scheme of a unified constitution for the Malay Peninsula.

But, some place must be found for the Sultans in that constitution, because I consider they will not be satisfied with being informed, to quote from paragraph 14 of the Secret Paper, that their position is merely that of "natural leaders of their Malay people within their State territories."

A provision common to all the treaties between His Majesty's Government and the Sultans is that on matters of Malay Religion and Custom the Sultan is not bound to ask and accept the advice of the Resident or Adviser. These are matters which only affect the Malay community of the Malay States and, as regards the Settlements of Penang and Malacca, which are British territory, such provisions are not relevant. It is right and proper that on those matters the Governor in the Union Government should have the advice of the Sultans as a body. Accordingly the new constitution should provide for the establishment of a Council composed of all the Sultans (the term "Malay Rulers" must be abandoned) which should be a deliberative, consultative and advisory, but not an executive, body, with the Governor, or in his absence the Officer Administering the Government, as its President. On account of the fact that the Yang Tuan of Negri Sembilan and the Raja of Perlis are not Sultans this Council should have a Malay title as it would not be politic to give it the title in English "Council of Sultans." The main functions of this Council should be --

(a) To advise the Governor on all matters affecting Mohammedan religion and Malay custom, before any such matter is discussed or dealt with by the Union.

===== Page 367 =====
Legislature, and the Governor should be bound to have such matters discussed in the Council of Sultans in the first instance.

(b) To advise the Governor on any other matter which the Governor decides ought to be discussed in the Council of Sultans.

(c) To discuss any matter proposed for discussion by any Sultan, provided the Governor approves its discussion.

To restrict the functions of this Council to those mentioned in (a) alone would not satisfy the Sultans, and I see no harm in including (b) and (c).

As the relationship between His Majesty's Government and each Sultan is bound by treaty, the following matters should be debarred from discussion in the Council:

(a) Treaties, rights, dignities and privileges of each Sultan and members of his family, and the actions of each individual Sultan.

(b) The internal affairs of any individual State or Settlement which are properly within the purview of a State or Settlement Council.

It should be stated clearly that the establishment of this Council shall not prejudice in any way the treaty relations (by this I mean the new treaty arrangements) between His Majesty's Government and each Sultan, nor should the right of direct correspondence and access between any Sultan and the Governor be in any way impaired.

Such a Council should meet at regular intervals and should be opened with ceremony in keeping with the prestige of the Sultans.

Complete records of all Council Meetings should be kept in the English and Malay languages.

Council Meetings should not be public, but communiques to the press should be issued after each Meeting.

If such a Council is established with due ceremony and with the intention that the Governor should look upon it as a permanent consultative and advisory body, this ought to go a long way towards

===== Page 368 =====
Appeasing the Sultans, especially those of the Unfederated Malay States, for the loss of many of their present powers. With regard to the loss of those powers, it is appropriate here to suggest that immediately on the re-occupation of Malaya, the policy of the Military Government should be to stress the fact that the immediate Government of Malaya is a British Military Administration and give the appearance that if the Sultans act in a reasonable manner, His Majesty's Government will restore to them such of their former rights, dignities, and privileges as are consonant with the proposed new constitution. This policy should tend to give the impression that it is the Sultans, rather than His Majesty's Government, who are seeking concessions.

If the new constitution is accepted by the Sultans, the Council of Sultans will form a valuable consultative and advisory body to which the Governor and the Central Government can look for advice, particularly on matters touching Malay Religion and Custom, because such advice will be collective rather than individual. In fact, each Sultan, as a member of this Council, will play his part in a wider sphere than hitherto. It should be pointed out to the Sultans that in the post-war world the policy, not only of Great Britain but also of other nations, will be to deal with affairs on a regional basis rather than by individual States.

The rules of business for the Council should be framed by the Governor after consultation with the Sultans, and no meeting of the Council should be held unless the Governor or the Officer Administering the Government can attend, as it would be impolitic to hold any meeting with the Senior Sultan presiding.

I now revert to the Secretary of State's letter to which reference has been made at the beginning of this paragraph immediately following the citation of the relevant paragraphs from the Secret Paper CMB(44)3.

===== Page 369 =====
Government and, in any case, he must be subordinate to the Chief Secretary. I suggest that the titles of the posts to be held by the senior executive officers in the various States and Settlements should be changed from "British Resident" in the Federated Malay States, "British Adviser" ("General Adviser" in Johore) in the Unfederated Malay States, and "Resident Councillor" in the Settlements of Penang and Malacca, to "Resident Commissioner" in each State and Settlement. The term "State Commissioner" would not be appropriate because in Johore certain Malay officials are called by that title. It will not be possible to have the eleven Resident Commissioners as members of Executive Council since their status will be less than that of the former British Residents, British Advisers and Resident Councillors. In any case, their inclusion as members of Executive Council would not be appropriate in the unified constitution.

There should be five official members of Executive Council. Only the Chief Secretary, Attorney-General and Financial Secretary should be ex-officio, leaving two other officials to be nominated by the Governor.

There should be an equal number of unofficial members of Executive Council but it would be preferable not to prescribe such unofficial representatives on a racial basis. In the first instance, however, it is desirable that there should be one European, one Malay, one Chinese and one Indian unofficial member on Executive Council, leaving the Governor free to nominate the most suitable unofficial to fill the remaining vacancy.

It is not necessary to lay down that the membership of Executive Council should be restricted to members of Legislative Council, though this is the ideal to be aimed at eventually.

The question arises whether membership of Executive Council should be restricted to persons who are Malayan Union Citizens. This may create difficulties in the early stages on records Europeans, and this matter requires further consideration in relation to the Malayan Union Citizenship Directive.

This will give an Executive Council consisting of the Governor and ten members.

===== Page 370 =====
(B) Legislative Council

I assume that the unofficial members of the Legislative Council of the Union would be nominated because, in its present stage of development, the Malay Peninsula is unsuited to the electoral system.

Under the present constitution the Federal Council of the Federated Malay States consists of:

High Commissioner - President.
Official Members:
Resident of Perak.
Resident of Selangor.
Resident of Negri Sembilan.
Resident of Pahang.
Federal Secretary.
Legal Adviser.
Financial Secretary.
Secretary for Chinese Affairs.
Controller of Labour.
General Manager, F.N.S. Railways.
Adviser on Agriculture.
Comptroller of Customs.
Adviser on Medical Services.
Adviser on Education.
Additional member (Adviser on Public Works).

Unofficial Members:
5 Europeans.
4 Malays.
2 Chinese.
1 Indian.

Hence, in addition to the Governor, there are at present fifteen official and twelve unofficial members of the Federal Council.

Under the new constitution unofficial representation on Legislative Council should be on a population basis as far as possible. To this end it is convenient to divide the Malay Peninsula into the following areas:

1. Kedah and Perlis.
2. Penang and Province Wellesley.
3. Perak.
4. Selangor and Pahang.
5. Negri Sembilan and Malacca.
6. Johore.
7. Kelantan and Trengganu.

===== Page 371 =====
The estimated population of these areas, by race, as on the 30th June, 1941, is:

1. Kedah & Perlis: 387,735 674 151 116,672 62,025 16,051 583,308
2. Penang & Province Wellesley: 119,913 2,833 2,682 230,679 60,903 2,437 419,047
3. Perak: 335,385 4,115 1,590 450,197 196,056 5,350 992,691
4. Selangor & Pahang: 281,256 5,606 2,911 413,632 210,730 9,317 923,352
5. Negri Sembilan & Malacca: 217,912 2,029 3,346 217,931 87,552 3,326 532,096
6. Johore: 302,104 1,264 352 308,901 53,498 4,170 675,297
7. Kelantan & Trengganu: 555,836 262 57 40,319 9,000 8,250 613,724

It is clear from the above figures that for the areas mentioned the nominated unofficials, in every case, will be Malayan and Chinese, therefore some means must be evolved whereby adequate representation can be afforded to Europeans, Indians and Eurasians. This could be done by fixing the total number of unofficial members of Legislative Council at twenty-one, out of which fourteen members would be nominated to represent the above-mentioned areas on a population basis. The remaining seven unofficial members would be nominated to represent important interests throughout the Union, thereby affording a suitable method of securing adequate representation for European, Indian and Eurasian interests.

There should be twenty-one official members of the Legislative Council, of whom five would be the official members of the Executive Council.

(0) Temporary Advisory Council.

When Military Administration ceases and the new Civil Government is established in the Malay Peninsula, it will be impossible for that Government to set up a Legislative Council immediately. To cover the interregnum between the end of the Military Administration and the setting up of a Legislative Council, the new constitution should specifically provide for the establishment of an Advisory Council to the Governor which would take its place.

===== Page 372 =====
Temporarily of a Legislative Council. This Advisory Council should consist of an unspecified number of official and unofficial members. During that temporary period, the Executive Council, consisting of five official and five unofficial members, would be in existence and function as it would when the Civil Government is established.

It is probable that the Chief Civil Affairs Officer will set up, during the period of Military Administration, an Advisory Council on which there will be unofficial representation, thus affording an opportunity for enmarking unofficials who would be suitable to serve on the Governor's Advisory Council.

Nomenclature.

(D) Nomenclature.

Suitable terms must be thought of as to what the Union Government and its Legislature are to be called. In order to stress that it is a Union the following would appear to be appropriate terms -

(a) Union of Malaya.
(b) Government of the Union of Malaya.
(c) Legislative Council of the Union of Malaya.

The use of the term "Malaya" is not strictly accurate because Malaya includes Singapore, which is excluded from the Union, but this minor inaccurate geographical expression should be condoned in favour of stressing that the object is the unification of Malaya.

8. Reference has already been made to State Council in the Federated Malay States being reconstituted in 1932. Perak and Negri Sembilan adopted the bi-cameral system, whereas in Selangor and Pahang there was only one chamber.

Putting aside the bi-cameral system in Perak and Negri Sembilan, the general composition of a State Council in the Federated Malay States was that it was presided over by the Sultan, with the British Resident, Malay Chiefs, State officials, unofficial Europeans, Malays, Chinese and Indians as members.

Under the new constitution the Sultan must drop out and the President of a State or Settlement Council must be the Resident Commissioner. It is difficult to say now what the actual membership of a State or Settlement Council should be, but the members of those Councils should be appointed by the Governor on the advice of the Resident Commissioner. As regards the nomination of unofficial members some consideration should be paid to the racial population of each State and Settlement, but I would not make this the only guide.

===== Page 373 =====
In view of the fact that the Sultans will have nothing to do with the State Councils, it is advisable that an Advisory Council to the Sultan should be established in each State with appropriate functions and that such Council should be presided over by the Sultan.

The functions of that Advisory Council should be:

(a) To advise the Sultan on all matters affecting Mohammedan religion and Malay custom.

(b) To advise the Sultan on any other matter which the Resident Commissioner, with the approval of the Governor, refers to this Advisory Council.

As regards the functions of the State and Settlement Councils, paragraph 11 of the Secret Paper, quoted in paragraph 5 of this Memorandum, states:

"Subject to the new central authority, the several States and Settlements would be empowered to deal with such local affairs as may be devolved upon them by the central authority."

If by central authority is meant the Legislative Council of the Union of Malaya, I beg to differ because in my view that would unnecessarily restrict the functions of a State or Settlement Council.

I suggest that each State and Settlement Council should be empowered to legislate:

(a) On all matters, which, in the opinion of the Governor-in-Council, are of a merely local or private nature in the State or Settlement.

(For instance, the Malayan Collieries enactment, enacted by the State Council of Selangor, deals solely with the Malayan Collieries Ltd, building a private railway inside the State of Selangor.)

Before the Governor-in-Council decides whether a matter requiring legislation should be enacted by a State or Settlement Council, he must first be satisfied by a certificate signed by the Attorney-General that it is a fit and proper matter for legislation by such a Council.

Having so decided, the Clerk to Executive Council will sign a certificate to that effect.

(b) On all subjects in respect of which the Legislative Council of the Union of Malaya by law delegates the power of making laws to a State or Settlement Council.

(Laws made by a State or Settlement Council under this provision would be in the nature of rules or regulations etc. made under Ordinances passed by the Legislative Council of the Union of Malaya. I use the word "Ordinance" because I consider that it is the appropriate term to use for laws passed by the Legislative Council. The present word "Enactment" is more applicable to the legislative acts of a local body, and accordingly, I suggest that the laws passed by State or Settlement Council should be termed "Enactments".)

===== Page 374 =====
As regards other business of the State and Settlement Councils, I suggest that they should be empowered to discuss questions of a purely local nature. Provision can be made in their constitutions restricting discussions on other business to matters of a local nature. Such restrictions can be achieved by a provision analogous to the usual clause contained in Instructions under the Sign Manual and Signet issued to a Governor, in which it is laid down that the Governor alone is entitled to submit questions to Executive Council. If Resident Commissioners are given similar powers, there should be no danger of discussions in State and Settlement Councils extending to subjects which extend beyond local matters.

9. A re-organisation of the Courts will be necessary consequent on the formation of a Union. Before discussing what form this re-organisation should take, it is desirable to set out briefly the present constitution of the Supreme Courts throughout Malaysia.

The Supreme Court of the Colony is constituted by the Courts Ordinance (Cap. 10) and exercises within the Colony the same jurisdiction and authority as are held by His Majesty's High Court of Justice in England. Its Judges are appointed by His Majesty by Letters Patent under the Public Seal of the Colony. Hence those Judges are His Majesty's Judges functioning in the King's Courts.

The Supreme Court of the Federated Malay States is constituted by the Courts Enactment (Cap. 2) and comprises the Court of Appeal and the Courts of a Judge. The Court

===== Page 375 =====
In view of the fact that the Island of Singapore and the rest of Malaya are to be two separate entities, with separate Governments, I see no useful purpose in having a Supreme Court for the whole of Malaya.

I realize that some of the executive departments in the new constitution will be pan-Malayan, but the reason for this is to keep policy uniform throughout Malaya on vital matters affecting the whole Union. The Court and its Judges are not concerned with any question of policy.

Accordingly, I suggest that there should be a separate High Court of the Union of Malaya with a Chief Justice at its head. The term "High Court" is used because it appears to be the custom to reserve the term "Supreme Court" for Crown Colonies. The Chief Justice will have sufficient work to do in re-organizing the judicial system of all the Malay States and the two Settlements of Penang and Malacca, without having any responsibility for the Island of Singapore. In the first instance, a lot of his time will be taken up in travelling in order to get acquainted with local conditions, particularly in the Unfederated Malay States.

In addition to the Chief Justice, there must be a number of Judges of the High Court of the Union of Malaya stationed at various centres throughout the country. I need not go into the question of how many puisne Judges will be required or where they should be stationed.

In accordance with previous practice, the Chief Justice and the puisne Judges of the Supreme Court in Singapore should be declared ex officio Judges of the High Court of the Union of Malaya, and vice versa as regards the Chief Justice and puisne Judges of the Supreme Court of the Union of Malaya. In practice, the Court of Appeal, whether sitting in the Union of Malaya or in Singapore, will invariably be composed of the two Chief Justices and one puisne Judge. I see no reason for creating a separate Court of Appeal which would mean the appointment of Appeal Judges with consequential extra expense.

===== Page 376 =====
This suggested constitution of the Supreme Court of the Union of Malaya means that the judicial system of these Malay States, which provide for Malay Judges and Appeal Courts composed of unqualified Malay Judges and a British Adviser (e.g., Perlis and Trengganu), must go. All these unqualified Judges must be replaced by qualified personnel, and all appeals must go to the Court of Appeal of the Union of Malaya.

Death sentences in the Union of Malaya should be considered by the Governor-in-Council and not by the Malay Rulers.

I might say here, in order to give a fuller picture of this judicial system, I consider that the District Judge system in force in the Colony should be applied to the Union of Malaya, and that these appointments of District Judges should be made from the Colonial Legal Service. In fact, I think it is a matter for consideration whether District Courts should be given more extensive jurisdiction than they now possess in the Straits Settlements.

With regard to appeals from the Court of Appeal, at the present time, appeals to the Privy Council are only provided for in the Colony, the Federated Malay States, and in the State of Johore. In the Colony, there is the appeal to the King-in-Council as of right by virtue of the Charter and the constitution of the Straits Settlements as a Crown Colony. The Malay States, being merely protected States, are not subject to Orders-in-Council except at the request of the Rulers thereof.

In 1906 the four Sultans of the Federated Malay States requested the King-in-Council to entertain appeals from the Federated Malay States Court of Appeal in civil matters, and in pursuance of such request the Federated Malay States Order-in-Council, 1906, was promulgated giving effect to the wishes of the Sultans. That Order-in-Council was revoked and replaced by the Federated Malay States Appeal Order-in-Council in 1912 consequent upon the enactment of what is now section 33 of the Courts Enactment (Cap. 2) which reads as follows:

===== Page 377 =====
From any judgment or order of the Court of Appeal in any civil matter, an appeal may be made to His Britannic Majesty in Council, subject to such rules and regulations as may from time to time be prescribed by order of His said Majesty in Council.

The same procedure was followed in Johore in 1921.

The new constitution should provide for appeals from the Court of Appeal of the Union of Malay to the Privy Council.

10. Having dealt with the constitutional set up as regards the Government of the Union of Malay, its Executive and Legislative Councils, the State and Settlement Councils and the Courts, it is now appropriate to discuss the question of the transfer to the Union Government of the property etc. belonging to the various States and Settlements.

As the constitution of the Union of Malay is to be that of a Union and not a Federation, and since the local legislatures in the State and Settlement will be completely subordinate to the central government, and also because the Sultans will be no longer Malay Sultans but will collectively form an Advisory Council to the Governor, I feel that there is no room for any compromises in the transference of State and Settlement property to the Union Government and in the latter assuming full liability for State and Settlement debts. It appears to me that if the new constitution is to be a Union let it be one in practice and not merely on paper.

Accordingly, I have been largely guided by the provisions of the South Africa Act, 1909, in making the following suggestions. I am well aware that the State of Johore is wealthy compared with the other Unfederated Malay States, and that in creating a Union the State of Johore will contribute into the common pool assets greater in extent than those made by other Malay States. Although it will be difficult to persuade the Sultan of Johore to see reason on this, it cannot be

===== Page 378 =====
avoided, because to have an effective Union there can be no exceptions.

It is not possible in a general Memorandum of this kind to provide for every particular matter in the transfer of State and Settlement property to the Union Government, and I merely set out below the main subjects to which consideration must be given.

(a) Revenues.

Under the present system in the Federated Malay States certain revenues are appropriated to finance Federal Services and other revenues remain State. In the new constitution we are not, as stated above, endeavouring to create a greater federation, the aim is a Union and therefore there is no necessity for deciding what revenues shall be retained by the various States and Settlements and what shall go to the Union Government. All revenues, from whatever source arising, over which the States had powers of appropriation at the time of the establishment of the Union must vest in the Union Government. The financial experts may consider it desirable to appoint a commission after the establishment of the Union, to enquire into the financial arrangements which should exist between the Union Government and the various States and Settlements.

(b) Transfer of State and Settlement property.

All cash, bankers' balances, securities for moneys etc. belonging to each State and Settlement at the establishment of the Union must be transferred.

===== Page 379 =====
Referred to the Union Government. If, however, the balance of any funds raised at the establishment of the Union has been by law raised for any special purpose in any State or Settlement, the Union Government must appropriate such balance for the special purpose for which it was raised.

(c) State land, mines and minerals.

By section 8 of the Federated Malay States Land Code (Cap. 138) and by similar provisions in the land laws of the Unfederated Malay States, the entire property in, and control of, State land is vested solely in the Ruler of the State.

As regards the alienation of State land, each British Resident in the Federated Malay States is empowered to alienate it on behalf of the Ruler of the State, and in the Unfederated Malay States although by law the Sultan in Council is the authority having the power to alienate State land, in fact the Sultan in Council has delegated such power to other bodies and persons. At one time I thought it might be unnecessary to amend the law

===== Page 380 =====
Whereby State land is vested in the Ruler of the State, but having read and thought much about a unified constitution, I am of the opinion that all State land, public works, mines and minerals, and all property, whether movable or immovable, and all rights of whatever description belonging to the several States and Settlements must be transferred to the Union Government which will take such property subject to any encumbrances thereon.

(d) Railways, Ports and Harbours.

With regard to the Railways, the Federated Malay States Government owns the entire railway system of Malaya, with the exception of the Johore State Railway which is leased from Johore. The latest lease with Johore was executed on 30th November, 1932, and provides that the Federated Malay States Government shall hold a lease for the Johore State Railway until the 31st December, 1953. Under that lease the Federated Malay States Government pays to Johore a token sum of one dollar per year in advance and also a certain percentage of the net revenue on the working of the Federated Malay States Railway System. If there is a deficit on such a working Johore gets nothing, but, on the other hand, Johore does not have to stand any proportionate share of such deficit.

Under the new constitution the whole railway must be transferred to the Union Government which means that all the capital sunk in the Railway by the Federated Malay States Government and also by the Johore Government accrues to the benefit of the Union Government.

===== Page 381 =====
In recent years, it cannot be said that Johore has been making much profit from their share in the Federated Malay States Railway System, because after 1931, the running of the railway has generally resulted in a deficit, and by the end of 1934, the Railway Reserve Fund had been depleted to such an extent that it only stood at $7,478,164.

Hence, as regards the transfer of the railway to the Union Government, it means a great sacrifice by the Federated Malay States Government, with a correspondingly lesser one by the Johore Government, and a resultant gain to the remainder of the States and Settlements forming the Union.

Subject to examination of the law as to whether the port and harbour property at Penang is vested in the Penang Harbour Board, all ports and harbours in the various States and Settlements must be transferred to the Government of the Union of Malaya.

(e) State and Settlement debts.

The Union of Malaya Government, having assumed ownership of all the property formerly belonging to the various States and Settlements, must, in equity, assume liability for all their debts, and the interest thereon, as they stand at the time of the establishment of the Union.

(f) Financial arrangements between the Straits Settlements and the Government of the Union of Malaya.

Since Penang and Malacca are part of the Straits Settlements and under the new constitution they will be transferred from the jurisdiction of the Government of the Straits Settlements to that of the Government of the Union of Malaya, agreement must be reached as to what is to be the division of the assets and liabilities of these two Settlements between the new Government of the Island of Singapore and the Government of the Union of Malaya.

===== Page 382 =====
Presumably this matter will be decided by agreement between the two Governments.

11. At the establishment of the Union, all the laws of each particular State and Settlement will be in force and until the Legislative Council of the Union of Malaya begins to function, there will not be in existence any Union Legislation. Accordingly, the constitution itself must provide that all the laws in force in the several States and Settlements at the establishment of the Union shall continue in force in the respective States and Settlements until repealed or amended by the Legislature of the Union of Malaya.

If the judicial system as suggested in paragraph 9 of this Memorandum is adopted, provision must be made for the pending cases and appeals being taken over by the new Courts from the old Courts.

As regards legislation after the establishment of the Union, one difficulty occurs to me. All the Malay States have not reached an equal stage of development, e.g. Trengganu, Kelentan, and Perlis are behind Kedah and much behind the four Federated Malay States and Johore. In these backward States, there is no legislation on several highly technical subjects, e.g. bills of exchange, and it will not be desirable to legislate on such subjects in these backward States for some time to come.

Interpretation of Constitution.

12. I have carried out a certain amount of research as to whether the Courts should be given express power to interpret the constitution or whether the granting of such express power is unnecessary.

I do not think there can be any doubt that the Courts must have power to interpret the constitution should the occasion arise.

===== Page 383 =====
In South Africa and Canada there is no law expressly conferring power on the Courts to interpret the constitution and yet numerous decided cases show that there is no doubt that the Courts in those two Dominions have assumed such jurisdiction.

On the other hand, in Australia, section 76 of the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act provides (inter alia) that Parliament may make laws conferring jurisdiction on the High Court on any matter arising under the constitution or involving its interpretation.

By section 30 of the Commonwealth Judiciary Act, 1905–1934, the High Court is given original jurisdiction in all matters arising under the constitution and involving its interpretation. Thus, in Australia the Federal High Court has been given express powers to interpret the constitution.

In the Colonies the most useful case I can find on this matter is Jerusalem–Jaffa District Governor v Sulciman Marra (1926) A.C. 321, in which it was held by the Privy Council that it was the right and duty of the Supreme Court of Palestine to consider whether an Ordinance was consistent with the terms of the Mandate.

I have not had time to go into this matter in detail but incline to the view that, for the avoidance of doubts, it is preferable to include express provision in the constitution empowering the Courts to interpret it, and express provision must be included to the effect that, in any case of conflict, Ordinances of the Union of Malaya must prevail over enactments of State and Settlement Councils.

13. Paragraph 15 of the Secret Paper states –

"The complete details of the application of this policy and in particular the detailed measures to be designed for the creation of a self-governing institution can only be worked out on the spot after re-occupation in the light of the prevailing conditions."

Knowing the mentality of the Sultans and the necessity for getting the new treaties executed as quickly as possible after the re-occupation of

===== Page 384 =====
EXPLANATORY NOTES:

1. Underlined portions are amendments to Willan's original memorandum dated 15th November, 1944.

2. The page numbers of the redraft correspond, page by page, with the page numbers of the original draft, and they should be substituted in place of the corresponding pages of that original draft, thus giving a complete Second Draft.

3. ( ) denotes a deletion from the original memorandum.

===== Page 385 =====
FUTURE CONSTITUTION FOR MALAY PENINSULA.

1. In the War Cabinet Secret Paper CMB(44) dated 14th January, 1944, the Secretary of State for the Colonies sets out, in general terms, the future constitutional policy for British Colonial Territories in South East Asia. It is clear that as regards Malaya the aim is -

(a) A separate Government for Singapore Island.

(b) The Union of the Four Federated Malay States, the five Unfederated Malay States and the Settlements of Penang and Malacca.

2. Before discussing a new constitutional policy for Malaya it is as well to state briefly what is the present constitution. Malaya is divided into three parts -

(a) The Straits Settlements, a Crown Colony, for which His Majesty is able to legislate under the Straits Settlements Act, 1866, and the British Settlements Act, 1887.

(b) The four Malay States of Perak, Selangor, Negri Sembilan and Pahang over which His Majesty has no powers under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act. These States formed themselves into a Federation in 1896, and in 1909 a Federal Council was established which enacted legislation having the force of law throughout the Federation.

(c) The five Unfederated Malay States of Johore, Kedah, Kelantan, Trengganu and Perlis. Each of these States is independent and His Majesty has no powers under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act over any of them. Each such State has its own legislature, namely the Ruler in State Council.

All the nine Malay States are bound to Great Britain by treaties which date from 1874, in the case of Perak, to 1930, in the case of Perlis. The provisions of these treaties follow the same general lines, namely that each Malay Ruler shall accept a British officer whose advice shall be asked

===== Page 386 =====
In short, as Bagehot has stated, a Second Chamber "Besides independence to revise judicially and power to revise effectively, has leisure to revise intellectually." The Sultans, either individually or collectively, do not possess the necessary qualifications to perform effectively the real functions of a Second Chamber and on this account, and on account of the difficulties I have just mentioned, I am satisfied that any such Second Chamber is impracticable. In any case, it would be impolitic to attempt to find it a place within the scheme of a unified constitution for the Malay Peninsula.

But, some place must be found for the Sultans in that constitution, because I consider they will not be satisfied with being informed, to quote from paragraph 14 of the Secret Paper, that their position is merely that of "natural leaders of their Malay people within their State territories."

A provision common to all the treaties between His Majesty's Government and the Sultans is that on matters of Malay Religion and Custom the Sultan is not bound to ask and accept the advice of the Resident or Adviser. These are matters which only affect the Malay community of the Malay States and, as regards the Settlements of Penang and Malacca, which are British territory, such provisions are not relevant. It is right and proper that on those matters the Governor in the Union Government should have the advice of the Sultans as a body. Accordingly the new constitution should provide for the establishment of a Council composed of all the Sultans (the term "Malay Rulers" must be abandoned) which should be a deliberative, consultative and advisory, but not an executive, body, with the Governor, or in his absence the Officer Administering the Government, as its President. On account of the fact that the Yang Tuan of Negri Sembilan and the Raja of Perlis are not Sultans this Council should have a Malay title as it would not be politic to give it the title in English "Council of Sultans". The main functions of this Council should be -

(a) To advise the Governor on all matters affecting Mohammedan religion and Malay custom, before any such matter is discussed or dealt with by the Union

===== Page 387 =====
Legislature, and the Governor should be bound to have such matters discussed in the Council of Sultans in the first instance.

(b) To advise the Governor on any other matter which the Governor decides ought to be discussed in the Council of Sultans.

(c) To discuss any matter proposed for discussion by any Sultan, provided the Governor approves its discussion.

To restrict the functions of this Council to those mentioned in (a) alone would not satisfy the Sultans, and I see no harm in including (b) and (c).

As the relationship between His Majesty's Government and each Sultan is bound by treaty, the following matters should be debarred from discussion in the Council:

(a) Treaties, rights, dignities and privileges of each Sultan and members of his family, and the actions of each individual Sultan.

(b) The internal affairs of any individual State or Settlement which are properly within the purview of a State or Settlement Council.

It should be stated clearly that the establishment of this Council shall not prejudice in any way the treaty relations (by this I mean the new treaty arrangements) between His Majesty's Government and each Sultan, nor should the right of direct correspondence and access between any Sultan and the Governor be in any way impaired.

Such a Council should meet at regular intervals and should be opened with ceremony in keeping with the prestige of the Sultans.

Complete records of all Council Meetings should be kept in the English and Malay languages.

Council Meetings should not be public, but communiques to the press should be issued after each Meeting.

If such a Council is established with due ceremony and with the intention that the Governor should look upon it as a permanent consultative and advisory body, this ought to go a long way towards

===== Page 388 =====
Appeasing the Sultans, especially those of the Unfederated Malay States, for the loss of many of their present powers. With regard to the loss of those powers, it is appropriate here to suggest that immediately on the re-occupation of Malaya, the policy of the Military Government should be to stress the fact that the immediate Government of Malaya is a British Military Administration and give the appearance that if the Sultans act in a reasonable manner, His Majesty's Government will restore to them such of their former rights, dignities and privileges as are consonant with the proposed new constitution. This policy should tend to give the impression that it is the Sultans, rather than His Majesty's Government, who are seeking concessions.

If the new constitution is accepted by the Sultans, the Council of Sultans will form a valuable consultative and advisory body to which the Governor and the Central Government can look for advice, particularly on matters touching Malay Religion and Custom, because such advice will be collective rather than individual. In fact each Sultan, as a member of this Council, will play his part in a wider sphere than hitherto. It should be pointed out to the Sultans that in the post war world the policy, not only of Great Britain but also of other nations, will be to deal with affairs on a regional basis rather than by individual States.

The rules of business for the Council should be framed by the Governor after consultation with the Sultans, and no meeting of the Council should be held unless the Governor or the Officer Administering the Government can attend, as it would be impolitic to hold any meeting with the Senior Sultan presiding.

I now revert to the Secretary of State's letter to which reference has been made at the beginning of this paragraph immediately following the citation of the relevant paragraphs from the Secret Paper CMB(44)3.

===== Page 389 =====
Government and, in any case, he must be subordinate to the Chief Secretary. I suggest that the titles of the posts to be held by the senior executive officers in the various States and Settlements should be changed from "British Resident", in the Federated Malay States, "British Adviser" ("General Adviser" in Johore) in the Unfederated Malay States, and "Resident Councillor" in the Settlements of Penang and Malacca, to "Resident Commissioner" in each State and Settlement. The term "State Commissioner" would not be appropriate because in Johore certain Malay officials are called by that title. It will not be possible to have the eleven Resident Commissioners as members of Executive Council since their status will be less than that of the former British Residents, British Advisers and Resident Councillors. In any case their inclusion as members of Executive Council would not be appropriate in the unified constitution.

There should be five official members of Executive Council. Only the Chief Secretary, Attorney-General and Financial Secretary should be ex-officio, leaving two other officials to be nominated by the Governor.

There should be an equal number of unofficial members of Executive Council but it would be preferable not to prescribe such unofficial representatives on a racial basis. In the first instance, however, it is desirable that there should be one European, one Malay, one Chinese and one Indian unofficial member on Executive Council, leaving the Governor free to nominate the most suitable unofficial to fill the remaining vacancy.

It is not necessary to lay down that the membership of Executive Council should be restricted to members of Legislative Council, though this is the ideal to be aimed at eventually.

The question arises whether membership of Executive Council should be restricted to persons who are Malayan Union Citizens. This may create difficulties in the early stages as regards Europeans, and this matter requires further consideration in relation to the Malayan Union Citizenship Directive.

This will give an Executive Council consisting of the Governor and ten members.

===== Page 390 =====
(B) Legislative Council

I assume that the unofficial members of the Legislative Council of the Union would be nominated because, in its present stage of development, the Malay Peninsula is unsuited to the electoral system.

Under the present constitution, the Federal Council of the Federated Malay States consists of:

High Commissioner - President.

Official Members:
- Resident of Perak
- Resident of Selangor
- Resident of Negri Sembilan
- Resident of Pahang
- Federal Secretary
- Legal Adviser
- Financial Secretary
- Secretary for Chinese Affairs
- Controller of Labour
- General Manager, F.M.S. Railways
- Adviser on Agriculture
- Comptroller of Customs
- Adviser on Medical Services
- Adviser on Education
- Additional member (Adviser on Public Works)

Unofficial Members:
- 5 Europeans
- 4 Malays
- 2 Chinese
- 1 Indian

Hence, in addition to the Governor, there are at present fifteen official and twelve unofficial members of the Federal Council.

Under the new constitution, unofficial representation on the Legislative Council should be on a population basis as far as possible. To this end, it is convenient to divide the Malay Peninsula into the following areas:

1. Kedah and Perlis
2. Penang and Province Wellesley
3. Perak
4. Selangor and Pahang
5. Negri Sembilan and Malacca
6. Johore
7. Kelantan and Trengganu

===== Page 391 =====
The estimated population of these areas, by race, as on the 30th June, 1941, is:

| Area                         | Malays | Europeans | Eurasians | Chinese  | Indians | Others | Total   |
|------------------------------|--------|-----------|-----------|----------|---------|--------|---------|
| 1. Kedah & Perlis             | 387,735| 674       | 151       | 116,672  | 62,025  | 16,051 | 583,308 |
| 2. Penang & Province Wellesley|119,913| 2,853     | 2,682     | 230,679  | 60,503  | 2,437  | 419,047 |
| 3. Perak                     | 335,385| 4,113     | 1,990     | 450,197  | 196,056 | 5,350  | 992,691 |
| 4. Selangor & Pahang         | 281,236| 5,606     | 2,831     | 413,632  | 210,730 | 9,317  | 923,352 |
| 5. Negri Sembilan & Malacca  | 217,912| 2,029     | 3,346     | 217,931  | 87,552  | 3,326  | 532,096 |
| 6. Johore                   | 302,104| 1,264     | 352       | 308,901  | 58,498  | 4,178  | 673,297 |
| 7. Kelantan & Trengganu      | 555,836| 262       | 57        | 40,319   | 9,000   | 8,250  | 613,724 |

It is clear from the above figures that for the areas mentioned the nominated unofficials, in every case, will be Malays and Chinese, therefore some means must be evolved whereby adequate representation can be afforded to Europeans, Indians and Eurasians. This could be done by fixing the total number of unofficial members of Legislative Council at twenty-one, out of which fourteen members would be nominated to represent the above mentioned areas on a population basis. The remaining seven unofficial members would be nominated to represent important interests throughout the Union, thereby affording a suitable method of securing adequate representation for European, Indian and Eurasian interests.

There should be twenty-one official members of Legislative Council of whom five would be the official members of Executive Council.

(0) Temporary Advisory Council.

When Military Administration ceases and the new Civil Government is established in the Malay Peninsula it will be impossible for that Government to set up a Legislative Council immediately. To cover the interregnum between the end of the Military Administration and the setting up of a Legislative Council the new constitution should specifically provide for the establishment of an Advisory Council to the Governor which would take the place

===== Page 392 =====
Temporarily of a Legislative Council. This Advisory Council should consist of an unspecified number of official and unofficial members. During that temporary period, the Executive Council, consisting of five official and five unofficial members, would be in existence and function as it would when the Civil Government is established.

It is probable that the Chief Civil Affairs Officer will set up, during the period of Military Administration, an Advisory Council on which there will be unofficial representation, thus affording an opportunity for sarmanding unofficials who would be suitable to serve on the Governor's Advisory Council.

Nomenclature.

(B) Nomenclature.

Suitable terms must be thought of as to what the Union Government and its Legislature are to be called. In order to stress that it is a Union the following would appear to be appropriate terms:
(a) Union of Malaya.
(b) Government of the Union of Malaya.
(c) Legislative Council of the Union of Malaya.

The use of the term "Malaya" is not strictly accurate because Malaya includes Singapore, which is excluded from the Union, but this minor inaccurate geographical expression should be condoned in favour of stressing that the object is the unification of Malaya.

8. Reference has already been made to State Councils in the Federated Malay States being reconstituted in 1932. Perak and Negri Sembilan adopted the bicameral system, whereas in Selangor and Pahang there was only one chamber.

Putting aside the bicameral system in Perak and Negri Sembilan, the general composition of a State Council in the Federated Malay States was that it was presided over by the Sultan, with the British Resident, Malay Chiefs, State officials, unofficial Europeans, Malays, Chinese and Indians, as members.

Under the new constitution the Sultan must drop out and the President of a State or Settlement Council must be the Resident Commissioner. It is difficult to say now what the actual membership of a State or Settlement Council should be, but the members of those Councils should be appointed by the Governor on the advice of the Resident Commissioner. As regards the nomination of unofficial members some consideration should be paid to the racial population of each State and Settlement, but I would not make this the only guide.

===== Page 393 =====
In view of the fact that the Sultans will have nothing to do with the State Councils, it is advisable that an Advisory Council to the Sultan should be established in each State with appropriate functions and that such Council should be presided over by the Sultan.

The functions of that Advisory Council should be:

(a) To advise the Sultan on all matters affecting Mohammedan religion and Malay custom.

(b) To advise the Sultan on any other matter which the Resident Commissioner, with the approval of the Governor, refers to this Advisory Council.

As regards the functions of the State and Settlement Councils, paragraph 11 of the Secret Paper, quoted in paragraph 5 of this Memorandum, states:

"Subject to the new central authority, the several States and Settlements would be empowered to deal with such local affairs as may be devolved upon them by the central authority."

If by central authority is meant the Legislative Council of the Union of Malaya, I beg to differ because in my view that would unnecessarily restrict the functions of a State or Settlement Council.

I suggest that each State and Settlement Council should be empowered to legislate:

(a) On all matters which, in the opinion of the Governor-in-Council, are of a merely local or private nature in the State or Settlement.

(For instance, the Malayan Collieries Enactment, enacted by the State Council of Selangor, deals solely with the Malayan Collieries Ltd. building a private railway inside the State of Selangor.)

Before the Governor-in-Council decides whether a matter requiring legislation should be enacted by a State or Settlement Council, he must first be satisfied by a certificate signed by the Attorney-General that it is a fit and proper matter for legislation by such a Council.

Having so decided, the Clerk to Executive Council will sign a certificate to that effect.

(b) On all subjects in respect of which the Legislative Council of the Union of Malaya by law delegates the power of making laws to a State or Settlement Council.

(Laws made by a State or Settlement Council under this provision would be in the nature of rules or regulations etc. made under Ordinances passed by the Legislative Council of the Union of Malaya. I use the word "Ordinance" because I consider that it is the appropriate term to use for laws passed by the Legislative Council. The present word "Enactment" is more applicable to the legislative acts of a local body, and accordingly I suggest that the laws passed by State or Settlement Council should be termed "Enactments".)

===== Page 394 =====
As regards other business of the State and Settlement Councils, I suggest that they should be empowered to discuss questions of a purely local nature. Provision can be made in their constitutions restricting discussions on other business to matters of a local nature. Such restrictions can be achieved by a provision analogous to the usual clause contained in Instructions under the Sign Manual and Signet issued to a Governor, in which it is laid down that the Governor alone is entitled to submit questions to Executive Council. If Resident Commissioners are given similar powers, there should be no danger of discussions in State and Settlement Councils extending to subjects which extend beyond local matters.

9. A re-organisation of the Courts will be necessary consequent on the formation of a Union. Before discussing what form this re-organisation should take, it is desirable to set out briefly the present constitution of the Supreme Courts throughout Malaya.

The Supreme Court of the Colony is constituted by the Courts Ordinance (Cap. 10) and exercises within the Colony the same jurisdiction and authority as are held by His Majesty's High Court of Justice in England. Its Judges are appointed by His Majesty by Letters Patent under the Public Seal of the Colony. Hence those Judges are His Majesty's Judges functioning in the King's Courts.

The Supreme Court of the Federated Malay States is constituted by the Courts Enactment (Cap. 2) and comprises the Court of Appeal and the Courts of a Judge. The Court

===== Page 395 =====
In view of the fact that the Island of Singapore and the rest of Malaya are to be two separate entities, with separate Governments, I see no useful purpose in having a Supreme Court for the whole of Malaya.

I realise that some of the executive departments in the new constitution will be pan-Malayan, but the reason for this is to keep policy uniform throughout Malaya on vital matters affecting the whole Union. The Court and its Judges are not concerned with any question of policy.

Accordingly I suggest that there should be a separate High Court of the Union of Malaya with a Chief Justice at its head. The term "High Court" is used because it appears to be the custom to reserve the term "Supreme Court" for Crown Colonies. The Chief Justice will have sufficient work to do in re-organising the judicial system of all the Malay States and the two Settlements of Penang and Malacca, without having any responsibility for the Island of Singapore. In the first instance, a lot of his time will be taken up in travelling in order to get acquainted with local conditions, particularly in the Unfederated Malay States.

In addition to the Chief Justice there must be a number of Judges of the High Court of the Union of Malaya stationed at various centres throughout the country. I need not go into the question of how many puisne Judges will be required or where they should be stationed.

In accordance with previous practice the Chief Justice and the puisne Judges of the Supreme Court in Singapore should be declared ex officio Judges of the High Court of the Union of Malaya, and vice versa as regards the Chief Justice and puisne Judges of the Supreme Court of the Union of Malaya. In practice the Court of Appeal, whether sitting in the Union of Malaya or in Singapore, will invariably be composed of the two Chief Justices and one puisne Judge. I see no reason for creating a separate Court of Appeal which would mean the appointment of Appeal Judges with consequential extra expense.

===== Page 396 =====
This suggested constitution of the Supreme Court of the Union of Malaya means that the judicial system of those Malay States which provide for Malay Judges and Appeal Courts composed of unqualified Malay Judges and a British Adviser (e.g., Perlis and Trenggam) must go. All these unqualified Judges must be replaced by qualified personnel, and all appeals must go to the Court of Appeal of the Union of Malaya.

Death sentences in the Union of Malaya should be considered by the Governor-in-Council and not by the Malay Rulers.

I might say here, in order to give a fuller picture of this judicial system, I consider that the District Judge system in force in the Colony should be applied to the Union of Malaya, and that these appointments of District Judges should be made from the Colonial Legal Service. In fact, I think it is a matter for consideration whether District Courts should be given more extensive jurisdiction than they now possess in the Straits Settlements.

With regard to appeals from the Court of Appeal, at the present time, appeals to the Privy Council are only provided for in the Colony, the Federated Malay States, and in the State of Johore. In the Colony, there is the appeal to the King-in-Council as of right by virtue of the Charter and the constitution of the Straits Settlements as a Crown Colony. The Malay States being merely protected States are not subject to Orders-in-Council except at the request of the Rulers thereof.

In 1906, the four Sultans of the Federated Malay States requested the King-in-Council to entertain appeals from the Federated Malay States Court of Appeal in civil matters, and in pursuance of such request, the Federated Malay States Order-in-Council, 1906, was promulgated giving effect to the wishes of the Sultans. That Order-in-Council was revoked and replaced by the Federated Malay States Appeal Order-in-Council in 1912 consequent upon the enactment of what is now section 33 of the Courts Instrument (Cap. 2) which reads as follows:

===== Page 397 =====
From any judgment or order of the Court of Appeal in any civil matter, an appeal may be made to His Britannic Majesty in Council, subject to such rules and regulations as may from time to time be prescribed by order of His said Majesty in Council.

The same procedure was followed in Johore in 1921.

The new constitution should provide for appeals from the Court of Appeal of the Union of Malaya to the Privy Council.

10. Having dealt with the constitutional setup as regards the Government of the Union of Malaya, its Executive and Legislative Councils, the State and Settlement Councils, and the Courts, it is now appropriate to discuss the question of the transfer to the Union Government of the property, etc., belonging to the various States and Settlements.

As the constitution of the Union of Malaya is to be that of a Union and not a Federation, and since the local legislatures in the State and Settlement will be completely subordinate to the central government, and also because the Sultans will be no longer Malay Rulers but will collectively form an Advisory Council to the Governor, I feel that there is no room for any compromises in the transfer of State and Settlement property to the Union Government and in the latter assuming full liability for State and Settlement debts. It appears to me that if the new constitution is to be a Union, let it be one in practice and not merely on paper.

Accordingly, I have been largely guided by the provisions of the South Africa Act, 1909, in making the following suggestions. I am well aware that the State of Johore is wealthy compared with the other unfederated Malay States, and that in creating a Union, the State of Johore will contribute into the common pool assets greater in extent than those made by other Malay States. Although it will be difficult to persuade the Sultan of Johore to see reason on this, it cannot be

===== Page 398 =====
avoided, because to have an effective Union there can be no exceptions.

It is not possible in a general Memorandum of this kind to provide for every particular matter in the transfer of State and Settlement property to the Union Government, and I merely set out below the main subjects to which consideration must be given.

(a) Revenues.

Under the present system in the Federated Malay States certain revenues are appropriated to finance Federal Services and other revenues remain State. In the new constitution we are not, as stated above, endeavouring to create a greater federation, the aim is a Union and therefore there is no necessity for deciding what revenues shall be retained by the various States and Settlements and what shall go to the Union Government. All revenues, from whatever source arising, over which the States had powers of appropriation at the time of the establishment of the Union must vest in the Union Government. The financial experts may consider it desirable to appoint a commission after the establishment of the Union, to enquire into the financial arrangements which should exist between the Union Government and the various States and Settlements.

(b) Transfer of State and Settlement property.

All cash, bankers' balances, securities for moneys etc. belonging to each State and Settlement at the establishment of the Union must be transferred

===== Page 399 =====
Referred to the Union Government. If, however, the balance of any funds raised at the establishment of the Union has been by law raised for any special purpose in any State or Settlement, the Union Government must appropriate such balance for the special purpose for which it was raised.

(c) State land, mines and minerals.

By section 8 of the Federated Malay States Land Code (Cap. 138) and by similar provisions in the land laws of the Unfederated Malay States, the entire property in, and control of, State land is vested solely in the Ruler of the State.

As regards the alienation of State land, each British Resident in the Federated Malay States is empowered to alienate it on behalf of the Ruler of the State, and in the Unfederated Malay States although by law the Sultan in Council is the authority having the power to alienate State land, in fact the Sultan in Council has delegated such power to other bodies and persons. At one time I thought it might be unnecessary to amend the law

===== Page 400 =====
Whereby State land is vested in the Ruler of the State, but having read and thought much about a unified constitution, I am of the opinion that all State land, public works, mines and minerals, and all property, whether moveable or immovable, and all rights of whatever description belonging to the several States and Settlements must be transferred to the Union Government which will take such property subject to any encumbrances thereon.

(d) Railways, Ports and Harbours.

With regard to the Railways, the Federated Malay States Government owns the entire railway system of Malaya, with the exception of the Johore State Railway which is leased from Johore. The latest lease with Johore was executed on 30th November, 1932, and provides that the Federated Malay States Government shall hold a lease for the Johore State Railway until the 31st December, 1953. Under that lease, the Federated Malay States Government pays to Johore a token sum of one dollar per year in advance and also a certain percentage of the net revenue on the working of the Federated Malay States Railway System. If there is a deficit on such a working, Johore gets nothing, but, on the other hand, Johore does not have to stand any proportionate share of such deficit.

Under the new constitution, the whole railway must be transferred to the Union Government which means that all the capital sunk in the Railway by the Federated Malay States Government and also by the Johore Government accrues to the benefit of the Union Government.

===== Page 401 =====
In recent years, it cannot be said that Johore has been making much profit from their share in the Federated Malay States Railway System, because after 1931, the running of the railway has generally resulted in a deficit, and by the end of 1934 the Railway Renewals Reserve Fund had been depleted to such an extent that it only stood at 87,478,164.

Hence, as regards the transfer of the railway to the Union Government, it means a great sacrifice by the Federated Malay States Government, with a correspondingly lesser one by the Johore Government, and a resultant gain to the remainder of the States and Settlements forming the Union.

Subject to examination of the law as to whether the port and harbour property at Penang is vested in the Penang Harbour Board, all ports and harbours in the various States and Settlements must be transferred to the Government of the Union of Malaya.

(e) State and Settlement debts.

The Union of Malaya Government, having assumed ownership of all the property formerly belonging to the various States and Settlements, must, in equity, assume liability for all their debts and the interest thereon, as they stand at the time of the establishment of the Union.

(f) Financial arrangements between the Straits Settlements and the Government of the Union of Malaya.

Since Penang and Malacca are part of the Straits Settlements and under the new constitution they will be transferred from the jurisdiction of the Government of the Straits Settlements to that of the Government of the Union of Malaya, agreement must be reached as to what is to be the division of the assets and liabilities of these two Settlements between the new Government of the Island of Singapore and the Government of the Union of Malaya.

===== Page 402 =====
Presumably this matter will be decided by agreement between the two Governments.

11. At the establishment of the Union all the laws of each particular State and Settlement will be in force and until the Legislative Council of the Union of Malaya begins to function there will not be in existence any Union Legislation. Accordingly, the constitution itself must provide that all the laws in force in the several States and Settlements at the establishment of the Union shall continue in force in the respective States and Settlements until repealed or amended by the Legislature of the Union of Malaya.

If the judicial system as suggested in paragraph 9 of this Memorandum is adopted, provision must be made for the pending cases and appeals being taken over by the new Courts from the old Courts.

As regards legislation after the establishment of the Union, one difficulty occurs to me. All the Malay States have not reached an equal stage of development, e.g., Trengganu, Kelantan, and Perlis are behind Kedah and much behind the four Federated Malay States and Johore. In these backward States, there is no legislation on several highly technical subjects, e.g., bills of exchange, and it will not be desirable to legislate on such subjects in these backward States for some time to come.

(Interpretation of Constitution.)

12. I have carried out a certain amount of research as to whether the Courts should be given express power to interpret the constitution or whether the granting of such express power is unnecessary.

I do not think there can be any doubt that the Courts must have power to interpret the constitution should the occasion arise.

===== Page 403 =====
In South Africa and Canada, there is no law expressly conferring power on the Courts to interpret the constitution, and yet numerous decided cases show that there is no doubt that the Courts in those two Dominions have assumed such jurisdiction.

On the other hand, in Australia, section 76 of the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act provides (inter alia) that Parliament may make laws conferring jurisdiction on the High Court on any matter arising under the constitution or involving its interpretation.

By section 30 of the Commonwealth Judiciary Act, 1903-1934, the High Court is given original jurisdiction in all matters arising under the constitution and involving its interpretation. Thus, in Australia, the Federal High Court has been given express powers to interpret the constitution.

In the Colonies, the most useful case I can find on this matter is Jerusalem - Jaffa District Governor v Suleiman Murra (1926) A.C. 321, in which it was held by the Privy Council that it was the right and duty of the Supreme Court of Palestine to consider whether an Ordinance was consistent with the terms of the Mandate.

I have not had time to go into this matter in detail but incline to the view that, for the avoidance of doubts, it is preferable to include express provision in the constitution empowering the Courts to interpret it, and express provision must be included to the effect that, in any case of conflict, Ordinances of the Union of Malaya must prevail over Enactments of State and Settlement Councils.

13. Paragraph 15 of the Secret Paper states:

"The complete details of the application of this policy and in particular the detailed measures to be designed for the creation of a self-governing institution can only be worked out on the spot after re-occupation in the light of the prevailing conditions."

Knowing the mentality of the Sultans and the necessity for getting the new treaties executed as quickly as possible after the re-occupation of

===== Page 404 =====
The War Office,
C.A. (M.P.U.)
38 Hyde Park Gate,
S.W.7.

11th January, 1945.

Dear Paskin,

With reference to our discussion (third) on Wednesday, 20th December, 1944, regarding my Memorandum on the Future Constitution for the Malay Peninsula, I forward herewith three copies of a note thereon. The contents of this note have been agreed in C.A. (M.P.U.)

Yours sincerely,

Hawkins

J.J. Paskin, Esq., C.M.G., M.C.,
Colonial Office,
Downing Street, S.W.1.

Reg. and await revised memo.

H.T.B. 12/11

===== Page 405 =====
MALAY PENINSULA - FUTURE CONSTITUTION

NOTE ON A DISCUSSION (THIRD) AT THE COLONIAL OFFICE ON WEDNESDAY, 20TH DECEMBER, 1944.

Present:

Colonial Office M.P.U.

Mr. Gent Major-General Hone
Mr. Duncan Colonel McKerron
Mr. Paskin Lieut. Col. Newboult
Mr. Hastings Lieut. Col. Willan

The following points in the Willan memorandum were discussed.

(1) Pages 27 and 28 - State and Settlement Councils.

Sub-paragraph (a) on p.27 agreed subject to the Governor-in-Council being first supplied with a certificate under the hand of the Attorney-General certifying that any particular piece of legislation is a fit and proper matter on which a State or Settlement Council should legislate. A subsequent certificate signed by the Clerk to Executive Council will be conclusive that the Governor-in-Council has decided that a State or Settlement Council may legislate on the matter specified in such certificate.

Sub-paragraph (b) on p.27 amended to read as follows -

"(b) On all subjects in respect of which the Legislative Council of the Union of Malaya by law delegates the power of making laws to a State or Settlement Council."

Top of p.28 - agreed that legislation enacted by State and Settlement Councils should be termed "Enactments".

Agreed that the other business of State and Settlement Councils should be as set out on p.28.

(2) Pages 28 - 33 - Courts.

Agreed - see p.31 - that there should not be a Supreme Court of Malaya but that there should be a separate -

(a) High Court of the Union of Malaya.

(b) Supreme Court of Singapore.

Agreed - see bottom of p.31 - that a Court of Appeal for the Union of Malaya and one for Singapore should be constituted in accordance with the previous practice in force in the Federated Malay States and the Straits Settlements, i.e., the Court of Appeal, whether sitting in the Union of Malaya

/or in

===== Page 406 =====
Or in Singapore, should comprise the two Chief Justices and one puisne judge, unless either Chief Justice had been involved in the original trial, in which case another puisne judge would be required to sit on the Court of Appeal.

Agreed - see first sub-paragraph on p.32 - that the system in some of the Unfederated Malay States whereby High and Appeal Courts are composed of unqualified Malay Judges and British Advisers must cease.

Agreed - see second sub-paragraph on p.32 - (This is not strictly a constitutional matter) - the District Judge system in force in the Straits Settlements should be applied to the Union of Malaya.

Agreed that confirmation of death sentences in the Union of Malaya should go to the Governor-in-Council and not to the Malay Rulers as previously.

Agreed - p.33 - to insert a full stop after the words "Privy Council" in line 8 and delete lines 9 - 12.

(3) Page 34 - Revenues.

Agreed -
(a) Delete the words "and Settlements" in line 11 of sub-paragraph (a).
(b) Substitute a full stop for the comma after the word "Settlements" at the end of line 18 in sub-paragraph (a) and delete lines 19 - 23 of sub-paragraph (a).

(4) Pages 34 and 35 - Transfer of State and Settlement property.

Agreed delete lines 7 - 23 of sub-paragraph (b) on p.35.

(5) Pages 35 and 36 - State land, mines and minerals.

Agreed delete the words "with the consequential decrease in the powers of the Sultans, i.e. they can no longer remain Malay Rulers," - see lines 6 - 8 on p.36.

(6) Pages 36 and 37 - Railways, Ports and Harbours.

Agreed subject to the substitution of the following for the last 3 lines of the sub-paragraph on p.37 -
"Subject to examination of the law as to whether the harbour and port property at Penang and Prai is vested in the Penang Harbour Board, all ports and harbours in the various States and Settlements must be transferred to the Government of the Union of Malaya."

(7) Pages 37 and 38 - Financial arrangements between the States and Settlements and the Government of the Union of Malaya.

Agreed - delete the words "belong to" in line 1 of this sub-paragraph and substitute therefor the words "are part of".

===== Page 407 =====
(8) Page 38 - Laws and pending litigation.

Agreed -
(a) Delete the words "Legislative Council" in line 9 of this paragraph and substitute therefor the word "Legislature".
(b) Delete the last sentence beginning "Accordingly it might be ..." from this paragraph.

(9) Pages 38 and 39 - Interpretation of Constitution.

Agreed that the new Constitution should contain express provision for the High Court to interpret the Constitution and that, in any case of conflict, Ordinances of the Union of Malaya must prevail over Enactments of the State and Settlement Councils.

(10) Pages 39 and 40 - When details of the new constitution should be ready.

Agreed that the words "with this I disagree" in line 8 are an over-statement. Willan to recast this when preparing second draft - see paragraph (11) below.

(11) Agreed - Willan to prepare second draft of pages 16 et seq of his Memorandum in the light of discussions and decisions taken at the meetings held on 5th, 11th and 20th December, 1944.

===== Page 408 =====
Colonial Office,
Downing Street,
S.W.1.

18th June, 1945.

Dear Purcell,

You have no doubt seen the S.E.A.C. telegram saying that MacMichael wants to see you before you leave. He is arriving this afternoon.

In the meantime I have had the attached from Willan. I am not sure that M.U. proposals will be regarded as a complete answer to any demands, unless it may be that the particular Chinese members of 136 are more modest in their aspirations than some others. You may like to have this however as a local conclusion at C.A.S.(M) H.Q.

Yours sincerely,

(Sgd.) G.E.J. GENT.

Lieutenant-Colonel V.W.S. Purcell.

===== Page 409 =====
TOP SECRET.

TO: G.E.J. Gent Esq. C.M.G. O.B.E. M.C.

Subject: Force 136 - Malaya.

Herewith 1 copy of a note on Force 136 compiled by DGCAO (M) Rear Headquarters SAGSEA.

Tel: CAL: 5685/453.

===== Page 410 =====
FORCE 136.

On 29.5.45 Lt.Col. Johnston-Smith of Force 136 brought a Mr. Stewart (a businessman with long residence in Burma) to see me. Mr. Stewart has been connected with the activities of Force 136 in Burma for some time. He described to me the activities of this Force in Burma and also the consequential results in those parts of Burma which have been liberated.

2. The Burmese, under British Officers, are very anti-Japanese but, at the same time, they are not pro-British. They have a strong Burma nationalistic outlook and their motto is "Burma for the Burmese". Mr. Stewart stressed that they have been very loyal to their British Officers because they well realise that it is more dangerous for a Britisher in that Force than it is for a Burmese. He went on to say that in his view, if these Burmese members of Force 136 are handled tactfully and sympathetically by CAS(B) and later by the Civil Government of Burma, they would not cause any trouble. If, on the other hand, their aspirations towards Burmese independence is turned down flat and they do not receive tactful and sympathetic treatment they might easily cause a lot of trouble.

3. Having heard Mr. Stewart, I considered the problem in Malaya.

The members of Force 136 in Malaya are exclusively Chinese with British Officers. These Chinese have faced dangers and privations in Malaya in their efforts to sabotage the Japanese war effort. They can have no idea, like the Burmese, of endeavouring to obtain Chinese independence in Malaya, because it is not their country. But in the light of their poor political status in Malaya in the past they will at least expect some betterment of their political position as a reward for their efforts against the Japanese.

If when I wrote my Memorandum on the Future Constitution for the Malay Peninsula I had known as much about Force 136 as I know now I would have included the activities of its Chinese members as an added reason for the creation of a Union.

4. If the proposals for a Malayan Union and the consequential granting of a Malayan Citizenship are implemented they will be a complete answer to any demands which these Chinese members of Force 136 may make.

1 June 45.

Brigadier
DCCA0(M)
Rear Hdqrs Sacsea.

===== Page 411 =====
The image provided is too blurry and low-resolution to accurately recognize any text. It appears to be a blank or partially obscured document with a torn edge.

===== Page 412 =====
The image provided is too blurry and low-resolution to accurately recognize any text. It appears to be a blank or very faint background with no discernible content.

===== Page 413 =====
Future Policy in Malaya. Proposed constitution for the Malayan Union. 1945-1946. Manuscript records of the British Colonial Office CO 273/675/11. The National Archives (Kew, United Kingdom). State Papers Online Colonial. link.gale.com/apps/doc/WXHQTS157930549/SPOC?u=nuslib&sid=bookmark-SPOC&xid=b2815813. Accessed 1 Mar. 2026.

Gale Document Number: GALE|WXHQTS157930549

