===== Page 1 =====
1940 Straits Malay States

No. 50336 - Part II

SUBJECT.

Labour Unrest in Malaya.

Previous
Part I

Subsequent
50336/41

CO.273/662/11

FILE C
Wt. 25317 5619 10m 10/51 TCP/JR

===== Page 2 =====
The image provided is too blurry and low-resolution to accurately recognize any text. Therefore, no text can be extracted from this image.

===== Page 3 =====
The Malaysian Governments are not likely to share with much fear on this proposal in view of their dislike of Chinese official intervention in Palau. Nor are the defenses (or banshees) who have been engaged in anti-British agitation and strikes designed to hamper one war effort observing much sympathy from us.

On the other hand, it is the policy of the Foreign Office in present circumstances to weigh the Chinese Government as little as possible, and in view of this the request might be met as far as possible. The proposals at 516 and 526 appear feasible. 536 is more diffuse as it is not clear that officials appointed by the Chung King Government would exercise suppression function in Hong Kong and state laws in Army churches in Japanese occupations. I put this forward to Mr. A. H. Scott who stated that Sir John Brennan had advised that there was no need to bother much about what happened to the comments after they have reached their point of dismissal other (it is obviously undesirable that they shrewdly play in Hong Kong). It is clear that the P.D. are not bothering much about point 536 which does not strictly concern Palau. Our use of this I attach a draft which be referred to Hong Kong.

===== Page 4 =====
To Gov Stuart Bette Tel no. 1095/Secret — 29/7/40
To Gov Hongkong Tel no. 618/Conso

83 To 70 (w/c 81-82) compro — 30 Oct. 40

84 Chk. — Tel. 709 — 4.11.40.

There sent a copy of 84 to 17 Al Satt (F.C.) at this request. He asked for a reminder to be sent to the S.S. as it was "nearly three weeks" since the Chinese Ambassador asked for an early reply. Dr Lostman 9/11.40

To Governor Singapore No.1129. 7/11/40

86. S.S. Gazette 205 — 18.7.40.

Purley Lostman 9/11.40

To Stuart Bette — Tel 1155 Sec — Gons — 13/11/40

87 DESTROYED UNDER STATUTE

88 Chk. — Tel 333 (G.N.) decre — 14.11.40.

To deco (X0.) (37c.88) — 19.11.40.

Under the arrangements carried by the Colonies concerned, the deportees from Malaya (of whom only 313 are "political" cases in the St. Malayan Governments' views, eg against the Chinese Ambassador's figure of over a thousand) will be shipped to Hong Kong and passed through their Colony to the "unoccupied" Chinese part of Sha U Chung.

===== Page 5 =====
Where the Chinese authorities will have been forced of their coming.

The Chinese Ambassador's request for a nominal roll of the departures is turned down by the D.A.G. of the Straits as "nonessential." Hong Kong is apparently prepared to defend the battles en route to Sha U Chung, and I imagine that there will be little likelihood of any of them escaping the notice of the Chinese authorities there. Even if they did, that is not our business.

I have noted, Mr. McCarthy, that we have no proof to raise in the proceedings. We will get in force with me if the E.O. request order would like them further consent of the position.

Leaves Ree to preserve this, if S.G. Grant.

19.

18/11

90. Extract from Malaya Combined Intelligence Summary no. 6. Period 18/11/1940

Purly W.Bh.Person

23/11/1940

Mr. A.L. Scott rang up this morning with reference to 89 which he had discussed with Mr. Sterndale Bennett. Mr. Sterndale Bennett had pointed out that it was common international practice and courtesy when deporting an alien to inform his government, and in these circumstances would like us to find out whether Singapore would, despite the terms of 88, inform the Chinese Consul General of the deportation of these communists. The Acting Governor in his telegram at 88 did not give any reasons why he considered it undesirable to furnish the Chinese Consul General with any details. I suspect that he was actuated by the common desire of the Malayan Governments to cut down interference by the Chinese Consul General in internal Malayan matters. I spoke to you and you thought the matter might be referred to Singapore. If lists are provided to the Consul General.

===== Page 6 =====
General Hong Kong will probably also find it convenient to have copies although they do not want to pass them on to the Chinese authorities. I attach a draft telegram.

Sergeant 28. 27.11.40.

91 — Do Gov Singapore Dee no 1011 secret — 28/11/40

92 Jo Scott (w/26) 91) comp secret 22 Dec. 40
Mr Scott asked whether it was necessary to tell C.W. Gusb 20/12/40

93 To S.S. Tel 1308 Sec 20.12.40

94 D.S. — Tel. 385 (G.H) — 21.12.40

Then with R. Bromley Fo.
Now send him a copy of
93 0 07 94 by hand

Sergeant.
23 11 40

95 Jo Bromley (w/1c 93+94) B12c 24.12.40

96 Jo Scott (w/1c 93) comp secret 24.12.40

===== Page 7 =====
99. Extract from Miya bombarded Intelligence Summary no. 7 - 15 August to 30th Sept, 1940.

This interesting report has already been circulated.

Purly 1887/7/28

Transferred to 12254/7/40.

98. Extract from Proceedings of Fed. bo. meeting held on 21.5.40.

99. Extract from Proceedings of Fed. bo. meeting held on 20.8.40.

98.a. 99 would be better in the form of the Turtle from Bill (? Some Survival) or should be transferred.

99 is already registered on 12254/7/40. 98 has been transferred.

Kostelbome.
23.1.41.

===== Page 8 =====
TRADE UNIONS BILL.
SECOND READING.

The Legal Adviser: Sir, I beg to remind Council that on the 21st of May I had moved the second reading of this Bill and the Controller of Labour had seconded the motion. A debate then ensued and you, Sir, decided to postpone the closure of that debate until this meeting of Council when the Government reply would be made.

The Secretary for Chinese Affairs: Sir, in the course of the debate to which the Legal Adviser has referred, the Honble Mr. Mead spoke in opposition to the Bill and the principles that underlie it. Two others spoke in favour of the principles underlying this Bill and declared themselves in favour of enacting it. I should like first of all to attempt to clear away a number of misconceptions.

The Bill, if enacted, is not intended to force the formation of Trade Unions among mining or among any other type of labour. It is, as my honourable friend the Legal Adviser stated in his speech introducing the Bill, a Bill that "is to ensure that any Union that is formed shall be a lawful body"—in fact it is to provide the machinery of registration under a specific Enactment for bodies of workmen who have already formed themselves into an association of the nature of a Trade Union in the past or who intend so to do in the future.

It may interest honourable members to know that under the definition of "Trade Union" contained in clause 2 of this Bill there were existing in the Federated Malay States on the 1st of June of this year—that is the date nearest to the debate on the 21st of May—162 such societies. In that number I include only those that were recorded or registered under the Societies Enactment but do not include the United Planting Association of Malaya or the Federated Malay States Chamber of Mines which are incorporated by separate Enactments but which are none the less Trade Unions under the definition in clause 2.

Another misconception is that at the present time there are no Communist agitators at work amongst mining labour but it is within the knowledge of Government that strikes at the Malayan Collieries at Batu Arang in March 1937 and in December 1939 and at the Sungei Besi tin mines in December 1939 and March 1940 were organised by the Malayan Communist Party. Nor is that all. For Government has evidence that as recently as last month a branch of the Red General Labour Union (which I would remind members is a Malayan Communist Party organisation) was being organised amongst the labour force on the tin mine at Sungei Lembing of the Pahang Consolidated Co., Ltd., camouflaged under the name of "The Workers' Savings Society". When it was discovered it had already been in existence for over three months; it had 130 odd members; it had collected a strike fund; it was teaching Communist propaganda to its members and according to a note in a document found in a raid "the second period of training had been reached".

I will not weary the Council with other detail in regard to Communist agitation on mines. I think I have already given enough to show that the Malayan Communist Party is working determinedly amongst mining labour and the facts quoted are, I hope, enough to make other honourable members disagree with the Honble Mr. Mead when he said that the introduction of the Bill was inopportune and unnecessary and also when he spoke about there being a notable absence of strikes in the tin mining industry and when he claimed that subversive agitators had met with little success here compared with the Colony.

Labourers will look for their leaders. The day is past when tutelage by Government officers or by employers' associations will be tolerated. I know and I think that all of us who have had direct contact with labour recently know that after the enactment of this legislation there must be "growing pains" and that there will be a difficult period. But nonetheless in the enactment of this legislation I myself see the best hope for the future.

But, Sir, Government does not intend that this legislation should stand alone. It wishes to attempt something constructive as well. It intends to institute a course of publicity in regard to the labour conditions in Malaya compared with labour conditions in those countries from which our labour forces immigrate. It realises that this education must to a considerable extent come from men of the labourers' own race and it will consequently endeavour to educate the potential leaders of the labouring classes. The Federated Malay States Government has accordingly launched an experiment by the creation of posts of Chinese Inspectors of Labour which appear in the 1940 Estimates. Two graduates of Raffles College and a Selangor-born graduate of Hongkong University have already been appointed to fill these posts and they are to undergo a course of training calculated to fit them for the work that they must undertake. This work can only be successful if the candidates selected have the right personality and if they have free access to mine and estate managers as well as to the kongsis in which the labourers live. Honourable members will, I feel sure, recognise

===== Page 9 =====
The British Resident of Selangor: Sir, I second the motion.

The Resolution is passed.

COMING INTO FORCE OF THE COMPULSORY SERVICE (NON-COMBATANT DUTIES) ORDER 1940.

The Legal Adviser: Sir, I beg to move this Resolution, namely, "That it be resolved that the Compulsory Service (Non-Combatant Duties) Order, 1940, made by the High Commissioner under section 17 of the Compulsory Service (Volunteer Force) Enactment, 1940, and published as Notification No. 4447 in the Gazette of the 16th August, 1940, be approved and do come into force forthwith."

The Federal Secretary: Sir, I second the motion.

The Resolution is passed.

APPROPRIATION OF $45,000 TO ELECTRICAL DEPARTMENT IN SCHEDULE TO THE LOAN ENACTMENT.

The Acting Financial Secretary: Sir, I beg to move that this Council approves that a sum of $45,000 be appropriated and applied for the purpose of supplementing the item "Electrical Department" in the Schedule to the Loan Enactment (Cap. 128) from the balance available in the item "Klang River Deviation" in the Schedule to the same Enactment.

Section 4 (ii) of the Loan Enactment empowers the High Commissioner to direct that such portion of any sum provided under any item of the Schedule as may not be required for the purpose indicated in that item may be appropriated and applied for the purpose of any other item or items in the Schedule, provided that no such transfer of money shall be made unless such transfer shall first have been approved by a Resolution of the Federal Council.

In this case, the Government of Selangor has reported that a sum of $45,000 is not required for the purpose of the Klang River Deviation and that it is urgently required by the Electrical Department for the purpose of extending the distribution system in Selangor. The full Finance Committee of this Council has accorded its unanimous support to this proposal.

The British Resident of Selangor: Sir, I second the motion.

The Resolution is passed.

ADOPTION OF REPORTS OF THE FINANCE COMMITTEE ON MESSAGES NOS. 8 AND 9 OF 1939 AND ON MESSAGES NOS. 2 AND 3 OF 1940.

The Acting Financial Secretary: Sir, I beg to move that this Council adopts the reports of the Finance Committee on Messages NOS. 8 and 9 of 1939 and on Messages NOS. 2 and 3 of 1940, laid on the table of the Council on the 20th August, 1940, as Council Papers NOS. 15, 16, 17 and 18 of 1940.

The Federal Secretary: Sir, I second the motion.

The Resolution is passed.

Now, Sir, it strikes me as very curious that opposition to the legislation we have under consideration today is equally strong from the Malayan Communist Party itself and from the less progressive of our employers who may be regarded, I think, as poles asunder. When one is considering this Bill, I have with me, and I shall have them open for the inspection of members at the end of the debate, a number of documents issued by the Malayan Communist Party in opposition to this legislation and published at the time when this legislation was first gazetted. One is an amusing cartoon attacking the legislation. The other is a pamphlet with the head of Lenin on the front and it contains an article attacking vigorously both the Trade Unions Bill and the Industrial Courts Bill. It is entitled "Concrete Measures for the Development of Mass Organisations" and I will make one brief quotation from an article in it. The quotation reads:

"In view of the present favourable labour situation in Malaya and of the various successful labour struggles in Singapore, Kuala Lumpur and Penang and other places, this is the most opportune moment for our Party to organise the workers of all classes together because of their high revolutionary feeling and of their gradual distrust in 'yellow' organisation leadership.

We should ask the workers not to have faith in the so-called Trade Unions legislation, which is only another deceitful method of the British Imperialist in securing a firmer control of the labourers in time of emergency."

In the Federated Malay States today, Sir, labour has reached a point where it will no longer be content with the old methods of dealing with its grievances and of settling trade disputes. It is no longer satisfied with the methods that have been thought proper for years past and which received the commendation of some of the speakers in the debate on the 21st of May. But, Sir, the leaven that is working in the minds of labourers today has come from the growing emancipation and from the spread of education not only in Malaya but in those Asiatic countries with which our labour forces are linked and this leaven is today leavening the whole lump. We must take this into account and provide in some way for labour to throw up its own leaders from amongst its own ranks. We want representatives of labour who can negotiate with employers on a suitable basis and who can make a bargain that will be kept by their fellow-workers after it has been negotiated. To achieve this latter object they must have the confidence of their fellows. Only too frequently in the wave of strikes that has passed over Malaya in recent months our experience has been that representatives of workmen have been thrown over by those who appointed them as soon as they discovered that the terms negotiated were not precisely the same as those which the men themselves wanted. On other occasions we have found that the so-called representatives appointed were in fact given no power of negotiation whatsoever. In conditions such as these, Sir, a reasonable and lasting settlement of a trade dispute or a labour dispute is impossible.

The opinion of officers of Government who have been in close touch with labour in recent years is that the best course open to us is to enact legislation on the lines of this Bill and thereafter to work hard for the production of leaders from the ranks of the working classes themselves, in short, for the emergence of real Trade Union leaders. For in the conditions of today it is only from inside their own ranks that labourers will look for their leaders. The day is past when tutelage by Government officers or by employees' associations will be tolerated. I know and I think that all of us who have had direct contact with labour recently know that after the enactment of this legislation there must be "growing pains" and that there will be a difficult period. But nonetheless in the enactment of this legislation I myself see the best hope for the future.

But, Sir, Government does not intend that this legislation should stand alone. It wishes to attempt something constructive as well. It intends to institute a course of publicity in regard to the labour conditions in Malaya compared with labour conditions in those countries from which our labour forces immigrate. It realises that this education must to a considerable extent come from men of the labourers' own race and it will consequently endeavour to educate the potential leaders of the labouring classes. The Federated Malay States Government has accordingly launched an experiment by the creation of posts of Chinese Inspectors of Labour which appear in the 1940 Estimates. Two graduates of Raffles College and a Selangor-born graduate of Hong Kong University have already been appointed to fill these posts and they are to undergo a course of training calculated to fit them for the work that they must undertake. This work can only be successful if the candidates selected have the right personality and if they have free access to mine and estate managers as well as to the kongais in which the labourers live. Honourable members will, I feel sure, recognise

===== Page 10 =====
Here, again, this is an approval by this council in time of the importance of this experiment and will hardly need an assurance that other Inspectors of Labour will be appointed and trained as soon as the experiment already initiated has shown that it is likely to have good results.

I hope, Sir, that honourable members will consider that I have made out a case for accepting the principles of this Bill and that they will believe that its enactment is for the good of the working classes and, therefore, for the good of the whole community. (Applause.)

The President proposes the question that the Bill be now read a second time.

The motion is agreed to.

COMMITTEE.

Council resolves itself into Committee.

Clause 2 is amended as follows:

(1) The definition of "lock-out" is deleted and the following substituted therefor:

"lock-out" means (a) the closing by an employer of a place of employment (b) the suspension by an employer of work or (c) the refusal by an employer to continue to employ any number of persons employed by him,

in consequence of a dispute done with a view to compelling persons employed by such employer, or to aid another employer in compelling persons employed by him, to accept terms or conditions of or affecting employment;

(2) By the deletion of paragraph (b) in the definition of "trade union" and the re-lettering of paragraphs (c) and (d) as (b) and (c) respectively.

Clause 18 is amended by the addition at the end of the clause of the following proviso:

"Provided that where an appeal has been presented in accordance with the provisions of sections 16 and 17 against an order made by the Registrar under section 15 the provisions of this section shall not apply until such appeal shall have been disposed of."

Clause 31 is amended by the insertion immediately after the words "registered office" in sub-clause (i) the words "situated in the Federated Malay States".

Clause 39 is amended by the insertion immediately after the words "payment of" in paragraph (b) of the words "costs and".

The remainder of the Bill is agreed to without amendment.

The Legal Adviser: Sir, I beg to report that the Bill has been considered in Committee and has been agreed to with various amendments.

Council resumes.

PASSING.

The President puts the question that the Bill, as amended, do now pass.

The Bill, as amended, is passed and becomes Enactment No. 11 of 1940.

INDUSTRIAL COURTS BILL.

SECOND READING.

The Legal Adviser: Sir, I beg to move that this Bill be now read a second time.

The Secretary for Chinese Affairs: Sir, I second the motion.

The President proposes the question that the Bill be now read a second time.

The motion is agreed to.

COMMITTEE.

Council resolves itself into Committee.

Clause 4 is amended by inserting immediately before the word "trade" in each of the three places where that word occurs in sub-clause (4) the words "agricultural undertaking".

Clause 6 is amended by inserting immediately after the words "A court of inquiry" in sub-clause (3) the words "constituted by three or more persons".

Clause 8 is amended by inserting immediately after the words "court of inquiry" the words "and of the members of any such court".

The remainder of the Bill is agreed to without amendment.

The Legal Adviser: Sir, I beg to report that the Bill has been considered in Committee and has been agreed to with certain amendments.

Council resumes.

PASSING.

The President puts the question that the Bill, as amended, do now pass.

The Bill, as amended, is passed and becomes Enactment No. 12 of 1940.

===== Page 11 =====
EXTRACT FROM MALAYA COMBINED INTELLIGENCE SUMMARY

NO. 7.
Period 1st August to 30th September, 1940.

(M.C.I.S. No. 7/1940).

149. MALAYA - COMMUNISM. (Page 133.)

Policy of the Malayan Communist Party.

Following the joint representative meeting of the three Malayan Communist Party organisations, namely Malayan Central Committee, the Singapore General Labour Union and the Malayan Anti-Enemy Backing-up Society, held in Singapore on the 4th July, 1940, at which it was decided to revive the anti-Japanese platform and drop the anti-British stand, a second meeting was called, this time of Malayan Communist Party directives only. This meeting held on the 27th August, 1940 qualified the decisions of the meeting on the 4th July, 1940, in the following ways:

(1) The meeting reviewed the repeated failures in the past of the anti-British and anti-Capitalist movements in Malaya and rightly concluded that these failures were due to lack of sympathy for such movements among local Chinese as a whole. In a further effort to gain a wider measure of general support, the following plan was adopted.

(2) The main plank of the Malayan Communist Party programme was reaffirmed to be an anti-British one.

(3) In order to draw the British Government in Malaya into an appearance of hostility to the National (Chungking) Government of China, the Anti-Enemy Backing-up Society is to be used in future exclusively for anti-Japanese activities.

(4) The Malayan Communist Party and the Malayan General Labour Union will immediately withdraw their personnel from open and active support of the Anti-Enemy Backing-up Society throughout Malaya.

(5) The scope of the Anti-Enemy Backing-up Society is to be widened and its activities intensified but by virtue of decision (4) above, the increased Government or Police action against the Anti-Enemy Backing-up Society, which may be expected to follow, will leave the Malayan Communist Party personnel, proper, unaffected.

(6) It is hoped that anticipated intensified action by the Police against anti-Japanese and National Salvation activities will thus enable the Malayan Communist Party propaganda machine to turn local Chinese opinion against the British Government in Malaya, by pointing out that by crushing the Anti-Enemy Backing-up Society, the local Government is playing the Japanese game and is openly assisting Japan to overcome Chinese resistance to Japanese aggression.

(7) By thus setting a sprat to catch a whale, it is hoped to turn all Malayan Chinese sentiment into hostility to Britain, and so achieve the main immediate object in the Malayan Communist Party programme.

===== Page 12 =====
The proposed change in the policy of the Malayan Communist Party vis-à-vis the Anti-Enemy Backing-up Society is a development of importance. It is impossible to say at present what measure of success the anti-British scheme may meet with. That the Malayan Communist Party is determined to carry out the anti-British drive in Malaya seems certain; otherwise, they would be reluctant to sacrifice the Anti-Enemy Backing-up Society's organisation without purpose. Whether or not the Communist Party realizes that in acting in the way proposed, they are themselves playing the Japanese game, it is again impossible to say. They may realize this as their plan proceeds. It is equally unknown whether the proposed new twist is itself Japanese inspired. From the Japanese standpoint, nothing could be better suited to their purpose than to have the Anti-Enemy Backing-up Society obliterated by Government and the Communist Party turning its energy with what sympathy from the Chinese population it can gather, to an anti-British drive in this country. The Special Branch is aware that the Japanese are working to turn the fairly solid pro-Chiang Kai Shek allegiance of the Malayan Chinese from their anti-Japanese attitude to an anti-British front, possibly via a pro-Wang Ching Wei movement. Should the Communist Party meet with any great measure of success, it might even be possible for the Japanese to dispense with their intermediate pro-Wang Ching Wei stage, and seize the emergence of a general Chinese anti-British front in Malaya, for the furtherance of their own programme of southward expansion.

(Director Special Branch, S.S. Police).

General Policy of the Malayan Communist Party.

The effect of the labour purge on the Malayan Communist Party, the directing organ of the Malayan General Labour Union, has been to throw the Party back more on the defensive than it has been for many months past. There is evidence that the Party is seeking to re-establish itself on a firmer and more underground basis than it has been recently, before attempting any further large scale disaffection of labour and similar large scale activities.

(Deputy Inspector General (C.I.D.), S.S. Police).

Propaganda.

Previous references: M.C.I.S. No. 2/1940 page 27.
M.C.I.S. No. 4/1940 page 69.
M.C.I.S. No. 5/1940 page 83.

During the month of August there was a very decided increase in the amount of Communist propaganda issued in the Federated Malay States, and it is clear that a number of printing departments of the Party are in operation. Selangor and Negri Sembilan have each certainly got a printing department working, and probably Perak as well. Propaganda issued is violently anti-British and anti-war.

(Inspector-General of Police, F.M.S.).

150 MALAYA - JAPANESE ACTIVITIES.

Japanese Pressure to Turn Chinese Feeling in Malaya Anti-British

Special Branch is now in possession of evidence which shows that besides endeavouring to damp down local anti-Japanese feeling, Japanese Agencies in Malaya are trying to turn local Chinese feeling

===== Page 13 =====
Feeling as a whole anti-British. To this end they have begun to penetrate, with what success is not known, the most violently anti-Japanese organisations directed by the Malayan Communist Party in an attempt to turn the energy of these organisations against the White Man in Asia, and in particular against the British in Malaya.

This development, taken together with the new twist given by the Malayan Communist Party to its future policy towards the Anti-Enemy Society (pages 133-134 above of this summary), presents the appearance of a rapprochement between Japanese underground agencies in Malaya and the Malayan Communist Party for mutual profit on the common ground of anti-British propaganda. Whether this appearance of concerted action is purely accidental, or has some firmer basis, is at present unknown.

(Director Special Branch, S.S. Police).

Japanese Influence in Labour Unrest at Singapore.

An interesting feature of the recent labour unrest is the fact that those Chinese employed in the only Japanese rubber factory in Singapore did not join the strike. Furthermore, Chinese employed in Japanese packing plants and shipping godowns remained at work throughout the period of unrest, while those of British firms were on strike.

These facts lend colour to agency reports received, and persistent rumours circulated to the effect that the Japanese had a hand in fomenting the strikes in both the rubber and pineapple industries.

It is known that the strikes were sponsored and led by the Singapore General Labour Union, and it remains to conjecture what degree of liaison may exist between the local Japanese leaders and the Singapore General Labour Union, and what form that liaison takes. It is believed that no direct liaison exists as yet between the Japanese and the Malayan Communist Party.

There is also the fact that the attempt of the Singapore General Labour Union to force a general strike at the end of June as a reprisal for Police raids on labour forces in the first half of the month has failed for the time being, despite whatever aid may have been lent to the project by the Japanese. The nature of this aid is conjectured to be financial support and verbal propaganda diffused by a body of under-cover Formosans employed for the purpose.

The opinion is held by those best qualified at the moment to judge, that failure was due to the absence of

===== Page 14 =====
Of strong-arm methods in sufficient volume to combat the Police and to cow and terrorize Labour into compliance with strike orders. Colour is lent to this view by agency reports, and strong rumours that both the Singapore General Labour Union and the Formosan undercover propagandists are seeking to enlist or buy over certain Chinese secret societies whose terrorist methods will ensure success upon the next occasion.

This development is under close investigation.

(Director, Special Branch, S.S. Police).

===== Page 15 =====
COPY FOR REGISTRATION

GYPHER TELEGRAM

FROM Governor STRAITS SETTLEMENTS

D. 21st December, 1940.
R. 22nd December, 1940, 21:50 hrs.

No. 385. Government House.

Your telegram No. 1808
Secret. Communists. I agree.

Received in Register

23 DEC 1940

===== Page 16 =====
Mr. Blaxter 20/12 A force.

Receipt from T. Dart 14. 15 June 20. 12. 40

No. 1308 Secret My Telegram

No. 1211 Secret of 28 November
Departation of communists?

Do you agree? Thank you. I questioned.

Copy to M. A. L. Scott,
With Mr. Blaxter's
Secret.

===== Page 17 =====
Have been loaned to the Ministry of Supply with effect from the 4th of June, 1940. Mr. Creasy will, however, be available for the purpose of seeing the Colonial Development Bill through Parliament.

Mr. J.J. Baskin, M.C., will succeed Mr. Creasy as Secretary to the Colonial Development Advisory Committee.

Establishment Branch,
5th June, 1940.

===== Page 18 =====
C. O.

Mr. Monson 27.11
Mr. Gar 28.
Mr.
Sir A. Burns 28 at one
Mr. G. L. M. Clauson.
Mr. C. J. Jeffries.

Mr. A. J. Dawe.
Sir J. Shuckburgh.
Permit. U.S. of S.
Parly. U.S. of S.
Secretary of State.

DRAFT TELEGRAM GOVERNOR, SINGAPORE

No. 1211 Secret.

Your telegram No. 333 Government House Secret. Deportation of communists.

It would be in accordance with normal practice when an alien is deported to inform his Government. I consider, therefore, that nominal roll of deportees should be supplied to Chinese Consul General, and it would in that event probably be convenient for the Hong Kong Government to have copies for their own use.

Secer.

FURTHER ACTION

2 copies (Switzerland). (FO).

===== Page 19 =====
Communist Control of Labour Forces.

Previous reference: M.C.I.S. No.4/1940, page 69.

During June and July, the Communist Party continued its efforts to obtain control of labour forces by organising branches of the General (Red) Labour Union, either secretly as such, or openly as registered "Mutual Help Associations".

Generally, the use of the name "Mutual Help Association" is an indication of Communist Party influence. Another indication is the attempt of an organisation existing in one factory or one location to obtain registration under a name embracing a much larger territory. For instance, a meeting of thirty rubber tappers resulted in an application for registration of "The Selangor Rubber Workers' Mutual Help Association". The reason for this is obvious: if a branch of the General Labour Union existing in one rubber estate obtains registration as the "X X X Estate Rubber Workers' Mutual Help Association", its activities on the estate are cloaked, but activity outside the estate would be questioned by the Government. If the association obtains registration as "The Selangor Rubber Workers' Mutual Help Association", however, it is in a position to extend branches of the General Labour Union from the estate where it originated to every estate in Selangor, and its activities will still be covered by its name.

(Inspector-General of Police, F.M.S.)

Indian Communist Literature

On 10th July, handbills printed in Hindi, Urdu, Tamil and English were found posted up in Singapore. The handbills purported to have emanated from the "Soviet Union H.C.R. Army", but it is possible that they were distributed by the local Indian Youth League and/or the Indian Communist Party.

The bills, printed in rough red characters on poor quality paper, were extremely seditious, inciting non-cooperation in any form.

===== Page 20 =====
One of the hand-bills in Tamil was found posted up in the coolie lines at the R.A.F. Station, Seletar. This has been the only instance of this literature being found on Service premises.

(Defence Security Officer, Malaya.)

===== Page 21 =====
MEMORANDUM

Over one thousand Chinese Communist suspects were arrested or interned by the Governments of Malaya. They are to be deported to China by way of Hong Kong and Amoy. About sixty of these have already been sent to China. Others are still awaiting deportation.

In order that they shall be looked after by the proper Chinese authorities upon their landing and to prevent their falling into the hands of the Japanese or their puppets, the Chinese Government proposes that the following procedure be adopted before their deportation:

1. The Governments of Malaya to render to the Chinese Government a complete list of the names of the men to be deported.

2. To inform the Chinese Government regarding the date of their departure for China and the names of the steamers by which they are to be sent to China.

3. After their arrival in China the Chinese Government desires that they be handed over to the charge of officials specially appointed to look after the men.

An early and favourable reply will be highly appreciated.

CHINESE EMBASSY, W.1.
19th October, 1940.

===== Page 22 =====
CYPHER TELEGRAM

FROM O.A.G. STRAITS SETTLEMENTS.

D. 14th November, 1940.
R. 15th November 14.40 hrs.

No. 333 Government House Secret.

Addressed to the S. of S. for the Colonies, repeated to Hong Kong.

Your telegram No. 1095. Deportation of communists. Arrangements reported by the Governor of Hong Kong in his telegram No. 709 acceptable to this government and appear sufficient. I agree nominal rolls unnecessary. I consider it undesirable to furnish Chinese Consul General with any details.

Present number of banishees awaiting deportation from all parts of Malaya approximately 610, of whom 315 are political cases.

===== Page 23 =====
Straits Settlements
GOVERNMENT GAZETTE
EXTRAORDINARY
Published by Authority

NO. 205] SINGAPORE, THURSDAY, JULY 18, 1940 [VOL. LXXV

The following Notifications are, by command of His Excellency the Officer Administering the Government, published for general information.

H. WEISBERG,
Acting Colonial Secretary.

No. 2497.—THE EMERGENCY POWERS (DEFENCE) ACT, 1939.

In exercise of the powers conferred upon the Governor by the Emergency Powers (Defence) Act, 1939, as amended by the Emergency Powers (Defence) Act, 1940 extended to the Colony by the Emergency Powers (Colonial Defence) Order in Council as amended by an Order in Council dated the 7th day of June, 1940 and of all other powers thereunto him enabling the Officer Administering the Government hereby makes the following Regulations:

1. These Regulations may be cited as the Defence (Amendment No. 5) Regulations, 1940, and shall be read as one with the Defence Regulations, 1939 as from time to time amended, hereinafter referred to as the Principal Regulations.

2. Regulation 2 of the Principal Regulations is hereby amended by adding to the definition of “war offence” in paragraph (1) thereof the following subparagraph:

“(h) an offence against the Defence (Finance) Regulations, 1940 or any Order or direction made or given by virtue thereof.”

3. Regulation 21 of the Principal Regulations is hereby amended by inserting the words “with the leave of such advisory committee” immediately after the word “or” where it first occurs in the fifth line of paragraph (4) thereof.

4. The Principal Regulations are hereby amended by adding thereto the following new regulation to be numbered 28A:

“Display of flags, etc.

28A. The Governor may by order prohibit the display by any person in public of any flag, banner or emblem as to which the Governor is satisfied that the display thereof as aforesaid would be likely to cause a disturbance of the public order or to promote disaffection; and any such order may be made so as to apply either generally or to a specified area or to a specified occasion.”

===== Page 24 =====
5. Paragraph (3) of Regulation 32 of the Principal Regulations is hereby revoked and the following paragraph is substituted therefor:

“(3) The preceding provisions of this Regulation shall apply in relation to any person in respect of whom there is in force an order for his detention made either under this Part of these Regulations or in exercise of the prerogative of the Crown, as those provisions apply in relation to a prisoner of war.”

6. The Principal Regulations are hereby amended by inserting immediately after Regulation 54A thereof the following new Regulation to be numbered 54B:

“Settlement of labour differences and prohibition of strikes and lock-outs.

54B.—(1) If any difference exists or is apprehended between any employer and persons employed, or between any two or more classes of persons employed and the difference is one to which this Regulation applies that difference, if not determined by the parties directly concerned or their representatives or under existing agreements, may be reported to the Colonial Secretary, by or on behalf of either party to the difference and the decision of the Colonial Secretary as to whether a difference has been so reported to him or not, and as to the time at which a difference has been so reported, shall be conclusive for all purposes.

(2) (a) The Colonial Secretary shall consider any difference so reported and take any steps which seem to him expedient to promote a settlement of the difference, and, in the case where the difference is a difference between an employer and persons employed which appears to the Colonial Secretary a bona fide difference and which the Colonial Secretary has failed to settle by such steps as aforesaid, shall within seven days from the date of the report refer the matter for settlement to an arbitration tribunal appointed by the Governor either generally or for the purpose of dealing with any specific difference.

(b) The tribunal shall make its award without delay, and where practicable within ten days from the date of reference.

(3) The award on any such settlement shall be binding on both the employer and the employed and may be retrospective; and if any employer, or person employed, thereafter acts in contravention of, or fails to comply with the award, he shall be guilty of an offence against these Regulations.

(4) An employer shall not declare, cause or take part in a lock-out, and a person employed shall not take part in a strike in connection with any difference to which this Regulation applies, unless the difference has been reported to the Colonial Secretary, and seven days have elapsed since the date of the report, and the difference has not during that time been referred to a tribunal by the Colonial Secretary for settlement in accordance with this Regulation.

(5) If any person acts in contravention of paragraph (4) of this Regulation he shall be guilty of an offence against these Regulations.

(6) The differences to which this Regulation applies are differences as to rates of wages, hours of work, or otherwise as to terms or conditions of or affecting employment on or in connection with any occupation specified by the Governor by Order in the Gazette and this Regulation may be so applied to such a difference at any time, whether a lock-out or strike is in existence in connection with the difference to which it is applied or not.

(7) When this Regulation is applied to any such difference the conditions of labour and the remuneration thereof prevailing before the difference arose shall be continued until the said difference is settled in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation.

(8) In this Regulation, unless the context otherwise requires,—

(a) The expression “lock-out” means the closing of a place of employment, or the suspension of work, or the refusal by an employer to continue to employ any number of persons employed by him in consequence of a dispute, done with a view to

===== Page 25 =====
Compelling those persons, or to aid another employer in compelling persons employed by him, to accept terms or conditions of or affecting employment:

(b) The expression "strike" means the cessation of work by a body of persons employed acting in combination, or a concerted refusal or a refusal under a common understanding of any number of persons employed to continue to work for an employer in consequence of a dispute, done as a means of compelling their employer or any person or body of persons employed, or to aid other workmen in compelling their employer or any person or body of persons employed, to accept or not to accept terms or conditions of or affecting employment.

(9) The Colonial Secretary may, by order, provide for the procedure to be followed by a tribunal on receiving a reference and for such other incidental matters as appear to him expedient or necessary for the purpose of giving effect to this Regulation.

(10) Every member of a tribunal appointed under this Regulation shall so long as he is acting as such member be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of the Penal Code.

(11) No member of a tribunal shall be liable to any action in respect of any act or thing done by him as such member.

7. Regulation 59 of the Principal Regulations is hereby amended—

(a) by deleting paragraphs (2), (3) and (4) thereof and by substituting therefor the following paragraphs:

"(2) Subject as hereinafter provided, the Governor may by order provide for the requisitioning of property, and, without prejudice to the generality of this power, may by such order—

(a) authorise any persons by name or office (which persons are hereinafter in this Regulation called "the Authority") throughout the Colony or in specified areas or in areas specified in relation to each person so authorised, to requisition in their discretion any property, of any class or description specified therein,

(b) authorise any person or class of persons to perform such functions in connection with the requisitioning as appear to the Governor necessary or expedient,

(c) require and empower persons or classes of person to do or abstain from doing any such things as appear to the Governor necessary or expedient in connection with the requisitioning:

Provided that this Regulation shall not authorise the requisitioning of anything, or the use of anything, on board a United Kingdom or Dominion ship or aircraft.

(3) Where the Governor or the Authority requisitions any property, the Governor or the Authority, as the case may be, may use or deal with, or authorise the use of or dealing with, the property for such purpose or in such manner as he thinks expedient in the interests of public safety, defence or the efficient prosecution of the war, or for maintaining supplies and services essential to the life of the community and, may hold or sell or otherwise dispose thereof as if he were the owner."

(b) by renumbering paragraph (5) as paragraph (4) thereof.

8. Regulation 63 of the Principal Regulations is hereby revoked.

9. Regulation 77 of the Principal Regulations as revoked and replaced by Regulation 6 of the Defence (Amendment No. 7) Regulations, 1939 is hereby amended by adding thereto at the end thereof the following new paragraphs:

"(7) No photograph of a person taken in pursuance of the powers conferred by this regulation shall be published, except for the purpose of tracing that person, and no copy of any such photograph shall be shown to any person except a person officially authorised to see it.

===== Page 26 =====
(8) All photographs (both negatives and copies), and all documents relating to the identification of any person taken or made in pursuance of the said powers shall, unless that person has been convicted of an offence to which this Part of these Regulations applies, be destroyed as soon as may be after the expiration of the Emergency Powers (Defence) Act, 1939.

10. Regulation 78 of the Principal Regulations as revoked and replaced by Regulation 6 of the Defence (Amendment No. 3) Regulations, 1939 is hereby amended—

(a) by renumbering it as 78 (1); and

(b) by adding the following paragraph as paragraph (2) thereof:

“(2) A prosecution in respect of an offence against this Regulation shall not be instituted except by, or with the consent of the Attorney-General or the Solicitor-General.”

11. Regulation 91 of the Principal Regulations is hereby amended by deleting the word “annual” which occurs in the last line of paragraph (6) thereof and substituting therefor the word “annul”.

Dated this 16th day of July, 1940.

S. W. JONES,
Officer Administering the Government.

No. 2498.—THE DEFENCE (FINANCE) REGULATIONS, 1940.

In exercise of the powers conferred upon the Financial Secretary by Regulation 5 of the Defence (Finance) Regulations, 1940, the Acting Financial Secretary hereby permits—

(a) any person to sell to the Indian Overseas Bank, Limited, Ceylon Rupees and Indian and Burmah Rupees; and

(b) the Indian Overseas Bank, Limited to purchase from any person Ceylon Rupees, Indian Rupees and Burmah Rupees subject to such conditions as may, from time to time, be imposed by the Controller of Foreign Exchange,

(c) any person to buy from the Indian Overseas Bank, Limited, Ceylon Rupees, Indian and Burmah Rupees,

(d) the Indian Overseas Bank, Limited to sell to any person Ceylon Rupees, Indian Rupees and Burmah Rupees subject to such conditions as may, from time to time, be imposed by the Controller of Foreign Exchange.

[No. C.F.E. 25/39].

No. 2499.—THE TRADING WITH THE ENEMY ORDINANCE, 1939.
(NO. 22 OF 1939).

ORDER.

In exercise of the powers conferred upon the Governor by subsection (2) of Section 3 of the Trading with the Enemy Ordinance, 1939, and of all other powers enabling him, the Officer Administering the Government, with the prior approval of the Secretary of State, hereby orders that the Schedule to the Order published as Gazette Notification No. 2233 of the 21st June, 1940, shall be varied by the addition of the names and addresses specified hereunder:

Banca Commerciale Italiana ... Greca, Athens.
Banca Commerciala Italiana-Romana ... Bucharest.
Banca Crotas A. ... Zagreb.
Banca Della Svizzera Italiana ... Lugano.
Banca di Roma ... Lugano.
Banca di Roma (Espana) ... Madrid.
Banca Unione de Credito ... Lugano.
Carlo Pareto and Cia. ... Rio de Janeiro.
Italian Bank for China ... Shanghai.
Banque Francaise et Italienne pour l'Amerique du Sud. A. ... Branches at:—
Buenos Aires,
Rio de Janeiro,
Santiago,
Bogota,
Monte Video.
Banca di Roma ... Baghdad.
Magyar-Olasz Bank (Ungarische-Italienische Bank A.G.) ... Budapest.

[No. 6651/39].

===== Page 27 =====
CYPHER TELEGRAM

FROM O.A.G. HONG KONG

D. 4th November, 1940.
R. 4th November 21:55 hrs.

No. 709.

Addressed to Governor of the Straits Settlements
No. 64 repeated to S. of S. for the Colonies No. 709,
Shanghai No. 244, Chungking No. 156. Reference to the
S. of S. telegram No. 1095 to you.

Deportation of Communists from Malaya to China
via Hong Kong. I am prepared to accept these
deportees in batches for direct transit and exportation
at Sha Yue Chung or Mirs Bay. A representative of
the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs staying
unofficially here would be given information of the
impending arrival of each batch and of the time of its
arrival at Sha Yue Chung where the Chinese Government
Authorities who are apparently concerned for their
welfare will arrange for their further transit into the
interior. Deportees would not be formally handed over
to the Chinese and no nominal rolls or other documents
would be furnished by this Government to the Chinese
authorities. If nominal rolls are necessary your
Government will doubtless supply these to the Chinese
Consul General at Singapore with any other particulars
necessary.

===== Page 28 =====
C. O.

Mr. Nunn. 26.10.
Mr. Goul. 26.
Mr.

Sir A. Burns. 28× at once
Mr. G. L. M. Clauson.
Mr. C. J. Jeffries.
Mr. A. J. Dawe.
Sir J. Shuckburgh.
Permit. U.S. of S.
Party. U.S. of S.
Secretary of State.

DRAFT. cypher tel.
Governor Singapore

Representations have been received
from the Chinese Ambassador relevant
who states that there are over one thousand
to the Chinese Communist advisory
defentation or commitment from Dalaya to
China by transnational way of Hong
King and Army.

Sixty have already been sent to China.
The Chinese Gov't, in order that they
shall be looked after by the proper
Chinese authorities upon landing and to
prevent their falling into the hands of
the Japanese or their suppliers: for
desire that the policies procedure should be
adopted before their defentation:

(1) The Malaysian Administration should
render to the Chinese Gov't a complete
nominal list of the persons to be deported.

(2) The Malaysian Administration should

===== Page 29 =====
Inform the Chinese Government of the date of departure and the names of the ships on which they will be sent to China.

(3) On arrival in China, the departures will be handed over to officials in charge of offences specially appointed to work after them.

As regards the proposal under (3), it requires further explanation since it is not understood how the Chinese Government official will exercise functions of the nature contemplated in China or present or at Hong Kong. In this respect, I would be grateful for your observations on the proposals, particularly to see any reaction the Delegation Administrations would be prepared to give the Chinese Council as stated, and to provide details suggested under (1) and (2) above. It approves that the departures concerned are of little or no sympathy from our point of view, but as explained in my Secret No. 1053, HTLG are at present anxious to be as accommodating to the Chinese Government as possible.

Reflected to Hong Kong No., Shanghai and Tokyo No., Chung Kong No.

===== Page 30 =====
THE Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs presents his compliments to the Under-Secretary of State and, by direction of the Secretary of State, transmits herewith copy of the under-mentioned paper for such observations as the Secretary of State may desire to offer.

Foreign Office,
October 24th, 1940.

Reference to previous correspondence:

Description of Enclosure.

Name and Date. Subject.

Memorandum from Chinese Ambassador
NO. FO. 40/90 of
October 19th, 1940.

Deportation of Chinese communists from Malaya.

Similar letter sent to [POSSIBLY MISSING]

===== Page 31 =====
Extracted from MALAYA COMBINED INTELLIGENCE SUMMARY No.5
Period 1st May to 30th June, 1940.
(M.C.I.S. No. 5/1940.)

103. MALAYA - COMMUNISM.

Communist Activities in the Event of Hostilities in Malaya.

It has recently been learnt that, should hostilities reach Malaya or the Netherlands East Indies, the communist party would seize the opportunity to create internal disturbances. The Central Executive Committee of the Malayan Communist Party held a conference during the first week in June to discuss at length the possibilities of the situation. It is considered that the Communist Party might prove exceedingly dangerous in the event of hostilities in this area.

(Director, Special Branch, Straits Settlements Police.)

Anti-British Propaganda.

Previous references: M.C.I.S. No.2/1940, page 27.
M.C.I.S. No.4/1940, page 69.

Anti-British feeling fostered by the intensive propaganda of the Malayan Communist Party pervades a large proportion of the Chinese youths and working classes in Singapore. Anti-British meetings are being held; pro-German sentiments were expressed at a recent meeting.

(Director, Special Branch, Straits Settlements Police.)

104. MALAYA - INTERNAL UNREST.

Communist Sponsored Strikes.

Previous reference: M.C.I.S. No.2/1940, page 27.

Strikes in the various industries continue to be directed and organised by the Singapore General Labour Union. The Firestone, Tai Thong and Kian Seng rubber factories have been on strike since May, and on the 12th June all other rubber factories and godowns went on strike.

On the 10th June, 107 banishment warrants were issued against the principal General Labour Union agitators in a number of rubber factories and godowns.

During police raids carried out in June, 146 arrests were made.

There is a general feeling of unrest amongst the Chinese in Singapore, mainly due to the news from Europe, and also because of the increasing tempo of communist activities amongst the labouring classes. The position as regards the control obtained over Chinese labour by the Communist Party is considered

===== Page 32 =====
Considered to be very serious. There are threats of a general strike, the provisional date of which is given as the 7th July, 1940.

(Deputy Inspector-General (C.I.D.), Straits Settlements Police.)

===== Page 33 =====
The image provided is too blurry and low-resolution to accurately recognize any text. It appears to be a blank or very blurry document with no visible content.

===== Page 34 =====
Labour unrest in Malaya: Deportation of Chinese communists from Malaya. 1940. MS Records of the British Colonial Office CO 273/662/11. The National Archives (Kew, United Kingdom). State Papers Online Colonial, link.gale.com/apps/doc/PZOJAI114188565/SPOC?u=nuslib&sid=bookmark-SPOC&xid=e28af918. Accessed 1 Mar. 2026.

Gale Document Number: GALE|PZOJAI114188565

