===== Page 1 =====
1940
STRAITS
MALAY STATES

PETITION
CO 273/660/3

FMS RAILWAY CLERICAL SERVICE

Previous
50007/167/40

Subsequent
6000 7/167/41.

R.83
26/10
Mr. Monson
78/10
Rm.83 PUT BY
$\textcircled{1}$ 4/12
$\textcircled{2}$ Mr. Monson
17/12
R.83 PUT BY
Mr. Monson
Rm.83.
PUT BY
Mr. Monson
Rm.83 PUT BY
Rm.83
807/3
Mr. Monson
37
Tel. Section
28/3
Tel. C.D.
98/3
R.83 PUT BY

FILE A.

===== Page 2 =====
50007

===== Page 3 =====
I am afraid that this petition has rather been held up owing to pressure of more urgent work. It is a matter of some complexity, and is not yet even complete since I am not sure what exactly the representations in the telegram at 1 amount to and the memorial from which they are summarised is coming by mail and has not yet arrived.

Briefly, the history of this petition has been as follows. It originated at much the same time as the petition from the General Clerical Service Association discussed in subfile 135/38. The amendments in the scheme for the General Clerical Service which arose out of that petition were incorporated in the scheme for the Railway Clerical staff, and some of the points in the petition were accordingly met at any rate in part. A further meeting was also arranged between the Railway Clerical Association and Government at which one or two concessions were made, and arising out of which the Clerical Association addressed a further letter to the Under Secretary to Government stressing three points in particular on which they asked for amendment of the scheme.

It will be convenient to take the heads of the petition one by one and examine the position on them as affected by the events described in paragraph 2 above.

(1) That the lower division of the service should be abolished. The High Commissioner points out that the lower division of the Railway Clerical Service is equivalent to the State Clerical Service and the general conditions which its introduction was designed to meet are similar. We have accepted the principle of the Clerical Service in answer to the General Clerical Service petition, and should agree here as well. Some of the detailed grievances which the petitioners feel have been answered by a raising of the minimum salary of the appointment to $40 per month, and by the introduction of a special grant carrying a salary of $110/A5/150 per month. The F.M.S. authorities have also agreed that supernumerary

===== Page 4 =====
posts will be granted in the higher division to allow for the promotion of suitable lower division staff who have attained the necessary standard for promotion after three years service. This will prevent stagnation at the head of the lower division.

(2)(c). That all Third Class Clerks who suffered stagnation from 2 - 5 years on their maximum scale should be promoted as from the 1st January 1937. A similar request was made by the General Clerical Association and the High Commissioner pointed out that the old scheme under which the Class III clerks concerned were appointed never contemplated automatic promotion from one grade to another, and that the new scheme gives them the chance of automatic promotion to Class II. This attitude should presumably be accepted in this case as it was earlier.

(b) That all Class III clerks after one year on their maximum should be promoted and receive increments of $10 per month (the whole increment rate for Class II) instead of the $5 per month provided by the scheme. This was not accepted in the case of the General Clerical Service petition and should, therefore, not be accepted in this case either.

(3). That promotions already approved in the 1938 Estimates for Class II clerks holding the necessary qualifying certificate should be granted in respect of the introduction of the new scheme. I cannot see that this point has been explicitly dealt with in the question of promotion to Class I which was discussed at the meeting between the General Manager of the Railways and the representatives of the Association on the 19th May referred to in paragraph 4 of the High Commissioner's despatch, where the delegates were satisfied by the raising of the permissable percentage of Class I promotions. Presumably this disposed of their grievance in respect of Class II clerks who were stuck on the maximum of their present salary.

(4) That the existing arrangements for the senior clerical examination should be continued and the procedure of a Promotions Board and written examination should be dropped. The High Commissioner agreed in the case of the General Clerical Service petition to drop the written examination, and this concession applies equally to the present petition.

(5) That the ratio of Class I appointments should be increased from 15% of the higher division establishment to 20%. At the meeting on the 16th May it was mutually agreed that the ratio of Class I appointments should be raised to 15% of the total establishment.

(6) That the maximum of Class II should be raised to $175 and of Class I to $225. The High Commissioner has agreed to raise the maximum of Class II to $160 which brings both these present maxima into line with the General Clerical Service. The Railway Clerical Service has no cases for separate treatment.

(7) That provision should be made in the scheme for promotion to the special class on a ratio basis, and that the present ration should be increased to 10%. At a later discussion with the Government this

===== Page 5 =====
demand was modified to a request for a 5% ratio. The High Commissioner points out that in the 1922 scheme, which previously provided for a ratio, this was fixed at a maximum of 22%. Later revisions of the scheme provided for the creation of special class posts where the duties justified such a classification having regard to their responsibilities. This appears to me a far more reasonable basis than taking a hard and fast number in proportion.

(8) That superscale appointments suppressed should be reinstated and a sufficient number of such appointments created. The High Commissioner states that the complaint that only three superscale posts now exist is not in accordance with the fact that 24 superscale appointments are now held by Asiatic staff, of whom 15 have been promoted from the Lower Clerical Service. It is the case that superscale posts are outside the provision of the Lower Clerical Scheme, and we must I think leave it to the local Government to decide where and when their creation is necessary.

(9) That pensions privileges should be restored to the Railway Clerical staff instead of their necessity to contribute to a Provident Fund. This is a matter really for Pensions Branch to comment on, but it should be noted that the Provident Fund only applies to entrants after the 1st June 1936, who were explicitly informed of their liability to contribute. Earlier entrants to the Service still enjoy, for what they are worth, the old non-contributory pension privileges.

In general I would reply to the petition as suggested by the High Commissioner in his paragraph 9, but we had better wait for the further memorial mentioned in the telegram at 1. Bring up 1st January if memorial not received.

W.B.H. Dorman
17.12.40.

===== Page 6 =====
Refre. minutes of 1 on last page -
memorial not get need - any action
not required please?

Received v. minutes above -
memorial not yet received? Any
action required, please.

Tel. corr. 1037.27/3.00

DESTROYED UNDER STATUTE

5 F.M.S. Tel 25 1-4-41

===== Page 7 =====
My Lord,

With reference to Sir Shenton Thomas' despatch dated the 11th July, 1939, and to Your Lordship's third person note No. 50007/167/39 of the 17th June, 1940, I have the honour to forward the memorial submitted by the President of the Government Junior Officers' Association, Federated Malay States, on behalf of certain members of that Association who are employed in the Railway Clerical Service, on the subject of the amended clerical scheme introduced in the Railway Department with retrospective effect from the 1st January, 1938.

2. The original 1938 salary schemes for the Railway Clerical Service and the General and State Clerical Services were almost identical and the grounds of complaint advanced in the memorial are very similar to those set out in the petition addressed to Mr. Malcolm MacDonald by the General Clerical Service Association, Federated Malay States, and commented upon in Sir Shenton Thomas' despatches of the 24th September, 1938 and the 21st June, 1939. The general observations contained in those despatches on the merits and objects of the 1938 scheme for the General and State Clerical Services apply mutatis mutandis to the new scheme for the Railway Clerical Service.

3. The amendments made in the scheme for the General and State Clerical Services following the receipt of decision on the above-mentioned despatches have now also been incorporated in the scheme for the Railway Clerical Service and a number of the representations of the Government Junior Officers' Association have thus been met.

4. The General Manager Railways however invited representatives of the Government Junior Officers' Association to confer with him on any points which the Association desired to raise on the draft amended scheme for the Railway Clerical Service and received the Association's deputation on the 16th May, 1940. The Acting Under Secretary to Government was present at the meeting. A number of concessions were granted to the satisfaction of the delegates so disposing of further points of reference in the memorial. Most important of these was the raising of the permissible percentage of Class I appointments in the Higher Division to a minimum of 15% of the total clerical establishment (including the Lower Division), and the relative clause in the scheme has been amended to read as follows:

The number of posts in Class I will be fixed by the General Manager from time to time in accordance with the requirements of the Railway Service but the number of such posts shall not be less than 15 per cent of the total clerical establishment. No promotion will be made unless the number of clerks in Class I falls short of the number authorised.

The Right Honourable
The Lord Lloyd of Dolobran, P.C., G.C.S.I.,
etc., etc., etc.,
COLONIAL OFFICE.

===== Page 8 =====
It was mutually agreed that, in respect of the period 1st January, 1938 to the 16th May, 1940, the number of posts in Class I should be 15% of the actual number of clerks in the service on the 16th May, 1940, (the date of the meeting with the delegates).

It should here be mentioned that the statement appearing on page 4 of the memorial that, under the 1934 scheme, the percentage of Class I appointments was 15% of 100% of the Railway Clerical Service is not correct as that scheme allowed for a Class I personnel of 15% of the Higher Division only which comprised 80% of the Railway Clerical Service. Prior to the introduction of the 1934 scheme, the Class I personnel was 10% of the entire Railway Clerical Service.

5. The amendments referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4 go a considerable way to meeting the requests made in paragraph 6 (II)(2) on pages 4 and 5 of the memorial. I am, however, unable to support the Association's demand for the further raising of the percentage of Class I appointments to 20% of the total clerical establishment.

6. The remaining representations made in the memorial are similar to representations which members of the Railway Clerical Service had previously addressed to Sir Shenton Thomas and to which after full consideration he found himself unable to accede. I set out, below, the grounds on which I cannot support the following requests contained in the memorial.

(a) Paragraph 6 (I) of the memorial.

That the Lower Division of the Railway Clerical Scheme be abolished.

The salary scale and general conditions of service prescribed for the Lower Division in the revised scheme for the Railway Clerical Service are identical with those of the scheme for the State and General Clerical Services and there are no grounds for separate consideration in the case of the Railway Clerical Service. The salary scale of the Lower Division has been further improved by increasing the initial salary from $35 to $40 per mensem and by introducing a Special Grade carrying a salary of $110-A5-$150 per mensem.

The observations contained in paragraphs 8 - 25(h) - and 9(a) and (b) of Sir Shenton Thomas' despatch dated the 21st June, 1939, apply equally in the case of the Lower Division of the Railway Clerical Service.

At the meeting held on the 16th May, 1940 between the General Manager Railways and the delegates it was agreed that the revised salary of the Lower Division (minimum $40 per mensem) should not be amended but in view of the fact that there will probably be no vacancies in the Higher Division for at least five years the General Manager has been empowered to create supernumerary posts in the Higher Division to allow of the promotion after the completion of three years satisfactory service, of those Lower Division clerks who, although they have attained the necessary standard for a "pass" in the qualifying examination...

===== Page 9 =====
examination for promotion from the Lower Division to the Higher Division, have not been promoted owing to the absence of vacancies in the Higher Division.

This is a palliative outside the provisions of the scheme, paragraph 15 of which provides for promotion after five years in such cases.

(b) Paragraph 6 (II) - Promotions and Increments - (page 3 of the memorial).

(i) That all Class III Clerks who have suffered stagnation ranging from 2 to 5 years be promoted with retrospective effect from January 1st, 1937, as was done in the Straits Settlements Clerical Service.

Neither the 1922 nor the 1934 scheme contemplated automatic promotion; it was expressly based on fixed percentages in the various classes. In view of the irregular recruitment in the past it has been necessary to abandon fixed percentages in the lower classes and the 1938 scheme has been adjusted to provide automatic promotion to Class II with an equation of salary.

(ii) That all Class III Clerks be promoted after serving one year on the maximum, retaining the present incremental scale of $10 per mensem instead of $5 per mensem.

This point is dealt with in the preceding sub-paragraph and also in the comments on paragraph 25(d) of the petition addressed to you by the General Clerical Services Association, vide paragraph 8 of Sir Shenton Thomas' covering despatch dated the 21st June, 1939.

(c) Paragraph 6 (II)(3).

That the percentage of appointments in the Special Class be 10% of the total clerical establishment.

The clause in the revised railway scheme governing posts in the Special Class which accords with the scheme for the General and State Clerical Services reads as follows:

"The number of posts in Special Class will be fixed by the General Manager from time to time in accordance with the requirements of the Railway Service and no promotion will be made unless the number of clerks in this class falls short of the number authorised. Promotion to Special Class will be by selection, on the occurrence of vacancies, from clerks in Class I, and the determining factor will be merit and not seniority."

The 1922 Railway Clerical Scheme regulated the proportion of clerks in the Special Class to a maximum of 21% of the total clerical establishment. The grading of specified posts as Special Class appointments in the Railway Department has been in operation since 1934 and Special Class posts have already been sanctioned where the duties

justify...

===== Page 10 =====
justify such a classification, regard being had to the nature of the work and the responsibilities attaching to particular posts.

(d) Paragraph 6 (III) - Superscale Appointments - (page 5 of the memorial).

A request is made for an increase in the number of Super-Scale posts although such posts are outside the provisions of the Railway Clerical Scheme.

The statement in paragraph 6 (III) of the memorial that only three super-scale posts now exist in the Railway Department is not in accordance with fact in that 24 Super-scale appointments are now held by Asiatic staff of whom 15 have been promoted from the Railway Clerical Service.

(e) Paragraph 6 (IV) - Pension Privileges Withdrawn.

That the new Provident Fund provisions be abolished and that all members of the Railway Clerical Service be granted the same Pension Privileges as other Government Servants.

No pension rights or pension prospects have been withdrawn from staff who entered the railway service prior to the introduction of the Railway Provident Fund with effect from the 1st July, 1936. New entrants to the railway service on or after the 1st July, 1936, were informed at the time of their recruitment that they would be subject to the provisions of the Railway Provident Fund. This fund was approved by Mr. J.H. Thomas in his Federated Malay States despatch No. 17 of the 10th February, 1936.

(f) Paragraph 7 - General.

That the maximum of Class II and Class I be increased to $175 per mensem and $225 per mensem respectively, corresponding to the increase in the maximum of the Special Class.

In the scheme as finally revised, the maximum salary of Class II has been increased from $150 to $160 per mensem and there is no justification for the request that this maximum should be further increased to $175 per mensem nor are there any reasonable grounds for extending the maximum of Class I from $210 per mensem to $225 per mensem. The present maxima are the same as those under the General Clerical Service Scheme.

(g) Paragraphs 8 and 10 of the memorial.

The points raised in these paragraphs are covered by the observations made in paragraphs 10 and 11 of Sir Shenton Thomas' despatch of the 21st June, 1939, covering the petition addressed to Your Lordship's predecessor by the General Clerical Services Association, Federated Malay States.

7. The Government Junior Officers' Association raised certain additional points, after the publication of the revised scheme. In order that Your Lordship may be fully acquainted with the position as it now stands, I take the opportunity of enclosing...

===== Page 11 =====
enclosing copies of correspondence which has been exchanged recently between the Association and the Government.

8. I am satisfied that the revised 1938 scheme for the Railway Clerical Service is a considerable improvement on the previous scheme, and that its provisions, as finally amended, meet very fairly the representations of the Government Junior Officers' Association as far as they can justifiably be met.

The object of the Government throughout has been to improve the conditions for the Clerical Services as a whole, while retaining sufficient safeguards for efficiency, and the Railway Clerical Scheme, as amended, has been devised to reconcile the proper hopes and claims of the members of the Clerical Service on the one hand with those of Government on the other.

9. A copy of the Scheme, as finally revised, is enclosed, and I recommend that the reply to the petitioners should be that Your Lordship is unable to approve any further modifications beyond those which have already been accepted by the Government of the Federated Malay States and incorporated in the Scheme.

I have the honour to be,
My Lord,
Your Lordship's most obedient, humble servant,

S. W. Jones
HIGH COMMISSIONER.

===== Page 12 =====
The Humble Memorial

OF

THE MEMBERS OF THE FEDERATED MALAY STATES

RAILWAY CLERICAL SERVICE

ON THE SUBJECT OF

THE REVISED 1938 RAILWAY CLERICAL SCHEME.

Printed by
Charles Grenier & Son, Ltd.
Kuala Lumpur.

===== Page 13 =====
The Right Honourable.

Malcolm Macdonald, M.P.

Secretary of State for the Colonies,

Downing Street,

LONDON, S.W. I.

Through the Proper Channel.

The Humble Memorial of the Members of the Federated Malay States Railway Clerical Service,

Respectfully Sheweth:—

1. That the scale of salaries of the Railway Clerical Scheme under which your memorialists are being paid, first came into force in 1922, based on the standard and cost of living prevailing 16 years ago. This was supplemented from time to time by additional emoluments known as "Temporary Allowances," to meet the increase in cost of living due to the normal rise in the standard of living in Malaya. In 1932 these allowances were withdrawn consequent upon the financial stringency caused by the severe economic depression. Your memorialists, in common with all other Government servants who were similarly affected, believed that this "cut" was only a measure of temporary retrenchment which would be re-adjusted when the financial position of the country improved as His Excellency the Governor in the Legislative Council on September 28th, 1931, in announcing the withdrawal of the "Temporary Allowances" said inter alia:—

"At this stage I wish to emphasize the absolute necessity of effecting such economies and of raising such additional revenues as will equate our annually recurrent expenditure with our annual income. The principle of equality of sacrifice has been accepted by His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom. We must likewise apply it in Malaya. For this reason, and also because both here and in the Federated Malay States such a measure of economy is essential, I have ordered that all temporary allowances, both to officers on the active list and to pensioners, must cease from the 1st January next. I do

===== Page 14 =====
No ground for differentiation
Salary scale imposed by mutual rate $40.00
Special Grade $110 - 5 - $150

===== Page 15 =====
this with reluctance for I recognise the cogency of the arguments in the majority report of the Commission which, under the Chairmanship of the Honourable the Attorney-General, recently investigated the matter. But it is a case of "noblesse oblige," and where great sacrifices are demanded from every section of the unofficial community, it is clearly right for the official community to set an example. We are the King's servants and His Majesty has himself shewn us what we ought to do."

Your memorialists submit that the above was tantamount to an admission that the withdrawal of the "Temporary Allowances" entailed great hardship on the services, and that salary without a whole or part of such allowances merged into it was hardly sufficient to meet normal requirements of the current standard of living in Malaya.

2. That under the 1922 scheme, which introduced a system of percentage promotion to the higher grades, there was severe stagnation in various grades. This was the subject of representations by your memorialists to Government but the intervention of the economic depression not only precluded any redress in the matter but further aggravated the position by the introduction of the following economy measures:

(i) Suspension of promotion.
(ii) Retrenchment.
(iii) Non-Recruitment of staff.

3. That on June 1st, 1934, a new scheme was introduced (hereinafter known as the 1934 Scheme), the main feature of which was the placing of the service into the categories, a Lower and a Higher Division, and the fixing of the initial salary for the former at as low as $26 per mensem.

4. That, meanwhile, with the improvement of economic conditions, promotions were again granted to the staff from the middle of 1933, but the position regarding stagnation did not show any appreciable amelioration. As a result, continued representations for relief were made to Government who replied that a new scheme would shortly be introduced to meet the situation. It is this new scheme (hereinafter referred to as the 1938 Scheme) which is the main subject of this memorial.

5. That while your memorialists recognise that in some respects the 1938 Scheme is an improvement on the existing scheme, there are certain features of it which have caused considerable discontent and dissatisfaction in the service. A comparative statement, in tabular form, of the conditions under the three schemes is attached as an appendix and your memorialists beg leave to develop more fully in this memorial the disadvantages of the 1938 scheme as set forth in that comparative table.

6. The main disadvantages and the amelioration sought are:

I. LOWER DIVISION.

The Lower Division Clerical Service was introduced in 1934 with a distinct object, viz., to absorb a class of candidates, a little superior to peons, who could handle in offices sundry jobs calling for little use of intelligence or initiative. The educational qualification prescribed was Standard VI and the scale of salary was designed to provide for local men who would invariably reside with their parents. Under the 1938 Scheme a higher

===== Page 16 =====
educational qualification is required, viz., Cambridge Senior School Certificate, and these clerks are now in practice required to perform the duties previously discharged by Class III Clerks, appointed under the 1922 Scheme on an initial salary of $55 per mensem. In addition, Lower Division clerks are now required to work away from their home town which means they have to pay house-rent out of their slender salaries. It is, therefore, submitted that the original object of a Lower Division Scheme has been exceeded and that an initial salary of $35 p.m. with annual increments of $3 p.m. is totally inadequate for these clerks to maintain their status as Government servants. In the Straits Settlements Clerical Service there is no Lower Division Scheme and the initial salary of a candidate entering the service with the same qualification, viz. Cambridge Senior School Certificate, remains at $60 per mensem.

Your memorialists therefore pray that the Lower Division scale of salaries be abolished and that their service be brought into line with the Straits Settlements Clerical Service.

II. PROMOTIONS AND INCREMENTS.

(i) Clerks Class III To Class II.

The 1922 and 1934 Schemes laid down, inter alia, that promotions from one Class to another should normally take place after a clerk had served one year on the maximum of his class but unfortunately the operation of the percentage ratio system resulted in heavy stagnation on the maximum of Class III, i.e. at $95 p.m. The 1938 Scheme does not in practice remove this stagnation but only places Class III Clerks, appointed under the 1922 Scheme, into two categories, viz:

(a) CLASS III CLERKS WHO REACHED THE MAXIMUM PRIOR TO JANUARY 1st, 1938.

Clerks in this category, if they wish to retain the $10 p.m. incremental scale in Class II have to stagnate two years on $95 p.m. and a further two years on $100 p.m. before proceeding to $110 p.m. according to the 1938 Scheme.

(b) CLASS III CLERKS WHO HAVE NOT REACHED THE MAXIMUM PRIOR TO JANUARY 1st, 1938.

Clerks in this category are allowed to proceed to Class II after serving one year on the maximum, but they are deprived of the incremental scale of $10 p.m. which was in force prior to January 1st, 1938, and will, instead, receive annual increments of only $5 p.m., according to the 1938 Scheme.

In the Straits Settlements, to remove stagnation, the Government have promoted all Class III Clerks, drawing the maximum salary to Class II, retaining the $10 p.m. incremental scale, with retrospective effect from January 1st, 1937. The MacGregor Commission recommended that a similar concession in the Federated Malay States would go far towards removing stagnation in this grade, but this recommendation has not been adopted.

Your memorialists, therefore, pray:

(i) That all Class III Clerks who have suffered stagnation ranging from 2 to 5 years be promoted with

===== Page 17 =====
retrospective effect from January 1st, 1937, as was done in the Straits Settlements Clerical Service.

(ii) That all Class III Clerks be promoted after serving one year on the maximum, retaining the present incremental scale of $10 p.m. instead of $5 p.m.

(2) Clerks Class II To Class I.

Prior to January 1st, 1938, promotion from Class II to Class I was made by departmental selection after passing the Senior Clerical Examination (entirely oral) conducted by an Examining and Promotions Board consisting of 5 Senior European Officers, and on completion of one year on the maximum, i.e. $160 p.m., subject to the occurrence of vacancies governed by a percentage ratio system. Under the 1934 Scheme this percentage was 15% of 100%, under the 1938 Scheme this has been reduced to 15% of 80%, the balance 20% representing the new Lower Division, while in addition to the oral examination, a further written competitive examination has been introduced. It will thus be seen that, whereas prior to January 1st, 1938, it was possible for a large number of candidates to pass the Senior Clerical Examination and await promotion to Class I as and when vacancies occurred. Under the 1938 Scheme the Competitive Examination in effect limits the number of successful candidates to the number of vacancies provided for in that particular year. The rest of the candidates, although they might have obtained a sufficient number of marks to have qualified for a pass and thus have been eligible for promotion to Class I when vacancies occurred, are thereby treated as having failed. Vacancies, under the revised reduced rate may be few and far between and, moreover, it is laid down that three consecutive failures at intervals of 18 months each will result in the clerks concerned being permanently disqualified from advancement in the service.

In this connection the following extract from the Report of the McLelland Salaries Commission of 1919, which condemns competitive examinations for senior clerks is worthy of consideration:

"It is not reasonable to expect a Clerk who is no longer in his youth to study for examinations; if he is a hardworked clerk, he will have no time to do so and thus be placed in a less favourable position than the clerk whose duties are light; and, further, even if all Clerks had equal opportunities of study, we do not believe that written examinations would form so fair a criterion of a Clerk's ability as the combination of departmental selection with a system of examinative interviews conducted by a Promotions Board."

The immediate effect of the introduction of the 1938 Scheme has been the reduction in the number of Class I appointments from 204 (15% of 100%) to 163 (15% of 80%). In consequence of this, the provision already made in the 1938 Estimates to fill all vacancies in Class I based on the first figure is being withdrawn, much to the disappointment of the Clerks who had already qualified and some of whom were recommended for promotion in 1937. Your memorialists submit that the reduction of the number of Class I appointments, already provided for in the approved 1938 Estimates, is an unexpected additional hardship to the large number of clerks stagnating on the maximum of Class II.

===== Page 18 =====
(iii) Removed 15% of total asbestos content. (mutual agreed): § 4 of 14 Cr. clap

===== Page 19 =====
In the Straits Settlements to remove stagnation, the ratio of Class I Clerks' appointments was increased from 15% to 20%, whereas the effect in the Federated Malay States of the reservation of 20% of the appointments to the Lower Division is that Class I appointments have now been reduced from 15% to 12% of the total establishment.

Your memorialists therefore pray that:

(i) Effect be given to the promotions already provided for in the 1938 Estimates for those clerks who have already passed the Senior Clerical Examination and have qualified for such promotion.

(ii) The existing Oral Senior Clerical Examination be allowed to continue instead of the proposed Board and Written Competitive Examinations.

(iii) The ratio of Class I appointments be raised to 20% of the total establishment as has been done in the Straits Settlements.

(3) Class I to Special Class.

In this case, too, the reservation of 20% for the Lower Clerical Service has resulted in a reduction in the number of Special Class appointments from 5% of 100% to 5% of 80%, the actual reduction being 15 appointments. This also affects the chances of promotion from Class II to Class I by increasing the stagnation in Class I. Under the ratio in the 1934 Scheme, there are 35 vacancies in the Special Class which have not yet been filled.

Your memorialists pray that steps be taken to fill these vacancies according to ratio and also that the ratio be increased to 10% of the total establishment.

III. SUPER-SCALE APPOINTMENTS.

The following superscale appointments under the 1922 scheme have been suppressed, and the present position is that the majority of the Special Class Clerks have no prospects of further advancement except in the case of a very few who might be selected to fill Grade 'E' posts created in replacement of suppressed European appointments:

Four Station Superintendents .. $325–A10–375
Office Assistant, Chief Accountant's Office .. $325–A10–375
Office Assistant, General Manager's Office .. $325–A10–375
Storekeeper (Asiatic) .. $325–A10–375
Two Station Superintendents .. $270–A10–300
Office Assistant, Traffic Manager's Office .. $270–A10–300
Chief Cashier, Chief Accountant's Office .. $270–A10–300
Office Assistant, Engineer for Way and Works' Office .. $270–A10–300

As against the above the following three appointments only exist at present:

Storekeeper (Asian) .. $280–A10–320
Chief Book Keeper, Chief Accountants' Office .. $270–A10–300
Office Assistant, General Manager's Office .. $300–A10–375

===== Page 20 =====
Your memorialists pray that these suppressed Super-scale appointments be re-instated and, in addition a sufficient number of Super-Scale appointments be created, available to all branches of the Railway Clerical Service to be filled as and when vacancies occur, in the same manner as is provided for in the General Clerical and Postal Clerical Services.

In this connection Your memorialists beg to draw attention to the omission in the 1938 Scheme of Clause 3 (iii) of the 1934 Scheme which reads as follows:

“In addition to the above, certain super-scale appointments in the department, at salaries, specially approved by the Government are open to members of the Railway Clerical Service.”

It is submitted that while appointments under this clause were very rare, it held out a prospect of special recognition for cases of very special merit and that its withdrawal, along with the abolition of the above-named Super-Scale appointments, has conveyed the impression to your memorialists that henceforth there will not be the same encouragement as in the past for special merit in the Railway Clerical Service.

IV. PENSION PRIVILEGES WITHDRAWN.

Under the 1922 and 1934 Schemes all candidates joining the Railway Clerical Service enjoyed pension privileges in common with all other Government servants. With effect from July 1st, 1936, however, these have been withdrawn and instead recruits, joining the service, are required on the completion of 10 years’ service, to contribute 7½% of their salaries monthly to a Provident Fund.

This treatment to the members of the Railway Clerical Service is made even more invidious by the fact that holders of non-pensionable appointments in the Railways, such as Porters, Pointsmen, Shunters, etc., are allowed half the pension to which those holding pensionable appointments are entitled, on the completion of ten years service and ¾ pension on the completion of 15 years or more service, without having to make any contribution from their salaries.

Your memorialists further submit that this call for a contribution to a Provident Fund is an additional drain on an already inadequate salary and enforces added hardships. In the Municipalities, Harbour Boards and Commercial Houses where Provident Funds are in operation, the salaries of the employees are so fixed that they are left with enough to maintain a reasonable standard of living after allowing for their contributions to the Provident Funds.

The members of other similar F.M.S. Government Services, viz. General and Postal Clerical Services, enjoy a Pension Scheme and the distinction in the case of the Railway Clerical Service is, it is submitted, unjustifiably invidious.

One of the chief attractions of Government Service over service under private employers is the prospect of a pension on retirement, which ensures steady provision for old age. It is this prospect that compensates Government servants for fixed salaries, which make no allowances for variations in the costs of living in times of prosperity, when other employees enjoy special increments and bonuses. The withdrawal of pension privileges is therefore not only a hardship but will also act as a deterrent to the best type of candidate from joining the Railway Clerical Service.

===== Page 21 =====
Your memorialists therefore beg and pray that the new Provident Fund provisions be abolished and that all members of the Railway Clerical Service be granted the same Pension Privileges as other Government Servants.

GENERAL.

7. That in the 1938 Scheme the maximum salary of the Special Class has been raised by $15 from $260 to $275 per mensem. In the case of Class I the maximum has been left unchanged at $210 per mensem and in the case of Class II, it has been reduced from $160 to $150. The McLelland Commission recommended $180 as a normal living wage for a senior clerk and under the present scheme an average clerk can hope to rise to the top of Class II only in the ordinary routine.

Your memorialists, therefore, pray that the maximum of Class II be raised to $175 p.m., which will be more in keeping with the above recommendation than the present figure of $150 p.m., and that the maximum of Class I be raised to $225 to bring it into line with the increase in the maximum for the Special Class.

8. That although in the preamble to the 1938 Scheme, "all clerks other than Special Class Clerks" are given the option of coming on to the new scheme or of remaining on their present scheme, it is also stated that in the latter case "they will come on to the new scheme on promotion." It would thus appear that no option really exists and, in view of the disadvantages of the 1938 Scheme detailed above, your memorialists appealed to His Excellency the High Commissioner for redress but His Excellency replied that he was unable to accede to any of their requests.

9. That it should be pointed out that the term "Clerical Service" does not fairly cover the multifarious duties actually performed by the members of this branch of Government Service. Although the responsibility attached to each job varies as it does in other branches, it certainly cannot be assumed that in this case "clerical service" means nothing more than "routine work done under instructions." Included in the Railway Clerical Service are Office Clerks, Chief Clerks, Chief Goods Clerks, Chief Parcels Clerks, Cashiers, Station Masters, Telegraph Clerks, Train Control Operators, Audit Clerks, Pay Clerks, etc., employed at various stations in all parts of the Peninsula, in some of which the amenities for recreation are few, while the responsibilities are heavy and the hours of work long.

10. That except for their political constitution, the Government machinery in the S.S. and F.M.S. is similar in all respects. The conditions of service of the junior officers in both Administrations have up to the introduction of the 1934 Scheme (which introduced the Lower Division Scheme) been identical. Your memorialists therefore submit that there is no justification for any discrimination in the salary schemes at this juncture.

11. That in view of the above circumstances, your memorialists beg that you will be so gracious as to give favourable consideration to the various requests submitted in this memorial which may be summarised as follows:

(i) Abolition of the Lower Division of the Railway Clerical Service.

(ii) Promotion of all Class III Clerks who have suffered stagnation from 2-5 years on the maximum with retrospective effect from January 1st, 1937, as has been done in the Straits Settlements Clerical Service.

===== Page 22 =====
(b) Promotion of all Class III Clerks after serving one year on the maximum, retaining the incremental rate of $10 p.m. instead of the proposed $5 p.m.

(iii) Promotions already provided for in the approved 1938 Estimates to be granted to those Class II Clerks, who hold the necessary qualifying certificate.

(iv) Continuation of the existing Senior Clerical Examination instead of the proposed Promotions Board and Written Competitive Examinations.

(v) Increase of the ratio of Class I appointments from 15 to 20 per cent. of the total establishment, as has been done in the Straits Settlements Clerical Service.

(vi) Increase of the maxima of Class II to $175 and Class I to $225, corresponding to the increase of the maximum of the Special Class.

(vii) Promotions to the Special Class be made according to the ratio provided in the scheme and the present ratio of 5 per cent. be increased to 10 per cent.

(viii) Reinstatement of the Super-Scale appointments suppressed and the creation of a sufficient number of such posts as are provided for in all the Government Clerical Services.

(ix) Restoration of Pension Privileges in place of the Provident Fund.

For which act of grace your humble memorialists shall, as in duty bound, ever pray.

For and on behalf of the Members of The Railway Clerical Service,

President.

GOVERNMENT JUNIOR OFFICERS’ ASSOCIATION,
FEDERATED MALAY STATES.

===== Page 23 =====
APPENDIX SHEWING MAJOR CONDITIONS AND DISPARITIES BETWEEN THE SCHEMES.

Subject. Railway Clerical Service Scheme in force prior to 1st June, 1934 (known as the 1922 Scheme).

Railway Clerical Service Scheme in force prior to 1st January, 1938 (known as the 1934 Scheme).

Proposed New Scheme to be in force from 1st January, 1938.

Disparity between the Schemes, concessions or privileges added or withdrawn.

1. Appointments

Direct recruitment made. Only one scheme in force. No standard school qualifications demanded of candidates who will ordinarily be required to pass the Railway Entrance Examination.

Exception: Cambridge Senior or Junior Local Certificate holders exempted from Entrance Examination.

Service is divided into two divisions, viz:

(a) Higher Division.
Recruitment made to this class:
(i) By direct appointment from candidates in possession of an English School Certificate and lower than Oxford or Cambridge School Certificates.
(ii) By promotion from Lower Division subject to passing an examination (not competitive).
(b) Lower Division.
Ordinarily limited to 20% of the Total Railway Clerical Service. Recruitment made from candidates in possession of an English School Certificate not lower than Standard VI.

Service is divided into two Divisions, viz:

(a) Higher Division.
Recruitment made to this class from only the Lower Division, subject to passing a competitive Examination.

(b) Lower Division.
Recruitment made from candidates in possession of an English School Certificate not lower than the Oxford or Cambridge Certificates.

(1) Educational qualification raised to Oxford or Cambridge School Certificate for appointment under new scheme whereas no educational qualification is demanded under scheme in operation prior to 1st June, 1934 except passing Railway Entrance Examination.

(2) Salary offered under new Scheme not sufficient to maintain the status required of a Government servant and to lead a reasonable standard of living.

(3) Direct recruitment to the Higher Division withdrawn under new scheme and competitive Examination instituted thereby restricting the number of entries to the Higher Division.

(4) No appointments made so far to the Higher Division since the introduction of the Lower Division in 1934.

2. Age

Candidates must be over 16 and under 23 years of age.

(a) Higher Division.
Candidates must ordinarily be between the ages of 17 and 23.

(b) Lower Division.
Candidates must be over 16 and under 22 years of age.

(a) Higher Division.
No recruitment.

(b) Lower Division.
Candidates must be over 16 and under 20 years of age.

(1) Age of entry to the Lower Division is lowered by 2 years under the new scheme.

3. Salary Scale

(a) Class III $40-A5-$95
Junior Cambridge School Certificate $55-A5-$95 Holders
Senior Cambridge School Certificate $60-A5-$95 Holders
Class II $100-A10-$160.
Class I $170-A10-$210.
Special Class $220-A10-$260.

(b) Higher Division.
Class III $55-A5-$95.
Class II $110-A10-$160.
Class I $170-A10-$210.
Special Class $220-A10-$260.

(a) Lower Division.
Grade II $35-A3-$65.
Grade I $70-A3-$100.

(b) Higher Division.
Class III $55-A5-$100.
Class II $110-A10-$150.
Class I $160-A10-$210.
Special Class $220-A10-$275.

Exception in the case of those appointed prior to 1st January, 1932.

Exception in the case of those reached the maximum ($95) of Class III prior to 1st January, 1933.

Class III Maximum $95 2 years
$100 1 year
Class II $100 1 year and then $110-A10-$160.

(1) Initial salary under the new scheme is $35 against $40, $55 and $60 under the scheme in operation prior to 1st June, 1934 although educational qualification raised. Prior to this date (1st June, 1934) no Lower Division Scheme in operation.

(2) All members now in the Higher Division (60%) were recruited under the scheme in operation prior to 1st June, 1934. In the case of those clerks who have not reached the maximum on 1st January, 1938 their incremental scale in Class II is reduced from $10 to $5. In the case of those clerks who reached the maximum on 1st January, 1938 if they wish to retain the $10 incremental scale, they have to graduate 2 years on $5 and a further 2 years on $100 before proceeding to $110 p.m.

(3) Maximum salary of class II reduced from $160 to $150 under the new scheme.

===== Page 24 =====
4. Examinations

Class III (i) Before receiving 3rd increment must pass preliminary Clerical Examination.
(ii) Must pass Junior Clerical Examination within 6 years of passing the Preliminary Clerical Examination and before being considered for promotion to Class II.
Class II. Must pass Senior Clerical Examination entirely oral before being considered for promotion to Class I.

Lower Division.
(i) Must pass Efficiency Bar Examination for promotion from $44 to $50 per person.
(ii) Promotion from the Lower Division to the Higher Division by Examination.
May sit for this examination at any time during their first 10 years of service. Allowed 4 attempts.

Higher Division.
Class III. Must pass Junior Clerical Examination within nine years of his first appointment or entry into the Higher Division from Lower Division and before being considered for promotion to Class II. Limited to 6 attempts.

Class II. Must pass Senior Clerical Examination entirely oral before being considered for promotion to Class I. Limited to 3 attempts.

Lower Division.
(i) Must pass an examination for promotion from grade II to I.
(ii) Must pass a competitive examination for entry into Higher Division with not less than 3 nor more than 7 years service on the Lower Division and not allowed to sit more than 3 times.

Higher Division.
Class III. Must pass Junior Clerical Examination before being considered for promotion to Class II. Limited to 3 attempts.

Class II. (1) Must pass a test by an Examination and Promotions Board and then (2) must pass a Competitive Written Examination before being considered for promotion to Class I. No clerks permitted to appear more than 3 times.

(1) Competitive Examination is enforced for entry from Lower Division to Higher Division under the new scheme as against a normal simple examination under the scheme in force prior to 1st January, 1988.

(2) Oral test and a written Competitive Examination for promotion from Class II to I to appear not more than 3 times enforced under the new scheme as against oral Examination in appointments is as follows:

Class I ... 41 appointments
Special ... 15 -do-

5. Ratio

No Lower Division.
Class III ... 624%
Class II ... 25%
Class I ... 19%
Special Class ... 21%

Position in 1938 according to rank, 1928 according to estimate.
Lower Div. 20% 272
Clerk Class III 30% 408
Class I 19% 408
Class I 19% 293*
Spl. 5% 59
Total 1931

*Percentage based on the total strength of the Rly. Clerical Service including Lower Division Clerks.

Position as per 1938 Scheme.
Lower Div. 20% 272
Class III ... 872
Class I ... 15% 163
Special Class ... 5% 54

Total 1,361

*Percentage based on 80% of the Higher Division strength of the Railway Clerical Service excluding the 20% Lower Division Clerks.

6. Promotion

Normally promotion from one class to another will only take place after a clerk has served one year on the maximum of his class subject to passing the prescribed examination and on the occurrence of vacancies but clerks of exceptional ability who hold the necessary qualifying certificate and are specially and unreservedly recommended by the Heads of their Sub-Departments may be put forward for promotion, whether or not they have reached the maximum of their class.

Normally promotion from one class to another will only take place after a clerk has served one year on the maximum of his class subject to passing the prescribed examinations and on the occurrence of vacancies but clerks of exceptional ability who hold the necessary qualifying certificates and are specially and unreservedly recommended by the Heads of their Sub-Departments may be put forward for promotion, whether or not they have reached the maximum of their class.

(1) A clerk Class III who has passed the Junior Clerical Examination and has completed 1 year on the maximum salary of grade III will be promoted to Class II.

(2) Promotion from Class II to class I will be by competitive examination. Candidates will be restricted to Class II who have attained a salary of not less than $120 per month and have satisfied a Promotion Board of their suitability.

Class III to II.
Under the scheme in force prior to 1st June, 1934 promotion was not automatic but the new scheme provides a reduction of 50% in the incremental scale.

Class II to I.
Revised ratio aggravates stagnation at the top of Class II.

Class I to Special.
A good number of vacancies remains unfilled for years together under the schemes.

Instead of one examination by a Promotion Board, a further competitive examination is introduced.

7. Pension

(1) Clerks appointed prior to 9th October, 1922 eligible for emplacement on pensionable establishment on completion of 5 years service.

(2) Clerks appointed after 9th October, 1923 eligible for emplacement on pensionable establishment on completion of 15 years service.

Clerks appointed to the Higher Division either by direct appointment or by promotion from the Lower Division eligible for emplacement on pensionable establishment on promotion to Class II provided that clerks appointed on or after 9th October, 1923 under the scheme in force prior to 1st June, 1934 become eligible for emplacement on pensionable establishment on completion of 10 years service.

With effect from 1st July 1926 pension privileges were withdrawn from recruits joining the service. Instead they are required to contribute to the Provident Fund towards which a clerk on completion of 10 years service should compulsorily contribute 71% of his salary monthly.

===== Page 25 =====
NEW SCHEME FOR THE RAILWAY CLERICAL SERVICE.

The humble memorial of the Government Junior Officers' Association, Federated Malay States.

Most respectfully sheweth:

That the New Scheme to govern the conditions of service and scales of salary of members of the Railway Clerical Service (F.S. 699/38) has received the most earnest and serious consideration of the Service. A conference of delegates and representatives of the Railway Clerical Service met at the Town Hall, Kuala Lumpur, on Sunday the 4th August, 1940, when the following resolution was unanimously passed:

"That this conference of representatives and delegates of the Railway Clerical Service requests that the Government Junior Officers' Association, Federated Malay States, may be pleased to make representations to Government praying that the New Scheme for the Railway Clerical Service may be so amended as to remove therefrom such clauses and provisions as are found to differentiate the Railway Clerical Service from the terms and conditions of service and prospects of the members of its sister services - the General Clerical Service and the Posts and Telegraphs Clerical Service - particularly in respect of the commencing salary of clerks, ratio of clerks in the Special Class in relation to other classes and the privileges of pension."

2. That the Government Junior Officers' Association, Federated Malay States, expresses its profound gratitude to A.T. Newboult, Esquire, M.C.S., Under Secretary to Government, Federated Malay States, for the genuine sympathy and intense regard for the welfare of the Railway Clerical Service, which he very kindly gave expression to, at the conference of representatives of the Government, the Railway Department and the Government Junior Officers' Association, held at the office of the General Manager, Federated Malay States Railways, on the 16th May, 1940, and for the assurance that he gave the delegates of the Association that it was the desire of the Government to look upon the three sections of the Clerical Service - The General Clerical, the Posts and Telegraphs Clerical and the Railway Clerical Service - as one Service, and to remove the differences in the terms and conditions of service of the three sections, which now serve as causes for humiliation and resentment among the members of the Railway Clerical Service.

3. That the Railway Clerical Service conference, held on 4th August, 1940, took into its most careful consideration the following facts:

(i) That the great delay in the consideration of their memorial addressed to the Right Honourable the Secretary of State for the Colonies dated the 16th November...

===== Page 26 =====
November, 1938, has unfortunately denied to the Railway Clerical Service the privilege of having their memorial considered in a calm atmosphere free from the grave thoughts arising from the inhuman tragedy, torturesome calamities, political intrigues and disastrous aggression, which are now being perpetrated by the War Lords of Germany and Italy.

(ii) That it is necessary to endeavour to reduce the request for amendments in the New Scheme to the very minimum and to limit it to only such clauses as do introduce unfavourable distinctions in the treatment of the Government Clerical Subordinate Officers of the Railway Department in comparison with the terms and conditions, offered to the Government Clerical Subordinate Officers of the Posts and Telegraphs Department and the General Clerical Service.

(iii) That the Government will be pleased to eliminate any controversial and harmful clause which is not now applicable to the clerks of the Posts and Telegraphs Department and the General Clerical Service as it will be agreed that the present moment is not opportune to thrash out the demerits and merits of any such clause.

(iv) That the Government will be generous enough to amend any clause in the New Railway Clerical Scheme which is likely to create a distinction in the application of the three New Clerical Service Schemes which are intended to be identical and uniformly applicable to the three sections of the Clerical Service.

4. That in terms of the request made by the conference of the Railway Clerical Service, the Government Junior Officers' Association, Federated Malay States, begs respectfully to submit for the most sympathetic consideration of the Government the three following amendments to the New Scheme:

(a) Amend clauses 10 and 18 so that the privilege of pension available to the members of the Posts and Telegraphs Clerical and General Clerical Services may be available also to those of the Railway Clerical Service.

(b) Amend clause 24 (i) so that the discretion of the General Manager may maintain a minimum number of posts in the Special Class which shall not be less than five per cent of the total Clerical Establishment.

(c) That the preamble to the New Scheme may be made similar to the preambles of the Posts and Telegraphs Clerical and the General Clerical Service Schemes, by the elimination of the provisos (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v) of the preamble to the New Scheme, vide pages 1 and 2 of the printed copy of the Scheme.

PENSION PRIVILEGES.

5. That the memorialists beg to submit that the prospects of receiving a pension in the evening of a man's life have been the main cause of inducing intelligent youths of good education, integrity and character to offer themselves for service under the Government and zealously to maintain thereafter an honest, faithful and efficient record of service and

excellent...

===== Page 27 =====
excellent behaviour throughout their entire service, lest the devout hopes and confident expectation of an assured and regular monthly subsistence allowance, in the minds of his wife and children may not be jeopardised by any lapse. The memorialists plead that the valid reasons for the continuance of the privilege of pension for clerks of the Posts and Telegraphs and General Clerical Services, in order to ensure the purity and comparatively unblemished character of the Public Service, is applicable in an equal measure for its continued exercise by members of the Railway Clerical Service.

SPECIAL CLASS CLERKS.

6. That the memorialists beg to submit that such dissatisfaction as exists among Senior Clerks in the Railway Clerical Service will be wiped out automatically, when a reasonable number of intelligent, industrious and capable men among them are permitted to receive promotion to the Special Class of the Service. Stagnation on the maximum salary of Class I stuns the initiative of the most devout and the enthusiasm of the most faithful. The future efficiency, integrity and excellence of the Railway Clerical Service depends very largely on the example which Senior Clerks make of themselves to their juniors, and on their voluntary and unceasing efforts to train their juniors into keen and efficient men of a standard which may be far above the average.

An excellent Senior Clerk who feels that in spite of his devoted services and acknowledged efficiency, his Head of Department arbitrarily endeavours to deny him his due encouragement and cheer by an unfortunate desire to maintain at his expense a smaller number of clerks than is allowed in the Posts and Telegraphs and General Clerical Services, cannot be considered to be too guilty, if his enthusiasm and concern for the training and development of his juniors begin to wane, when he finds himself the unfortunate and unmerited victim of such a policy of differential treatment.

The memorialists pray that the privilege enjoyed by clerks in the Posts and Telegraphs Department and the General Clerical Service, at the generous hands of the Director General, Posts and Telegraphs and the Federal Secretary respectively, may be assured to them at the hands of the General Manager, Federated Malay States Railways, by making a provision in the Scheme itself that the number of clerks in the Special Class shall not be less than five per cent of the total Clerical Establishment.

Annexure "A" appended hereto demonstrates effectively the suffering and hardship which Senior Clerks are subjected to by enforcing a disproportionately low percentage in the Special Class of the Railway Clerical Service.

PREAMBLE AND THE APPLICATION OF THE NEW SCHEME.

7. That the humble memorialists are much distressed to note that much of the benefit of the New Scheme and even the liberal spirit of sympathetic assistance underlying it are greatly prejudiced by the unnecessary and unfortunate checks and limitations introduced into the Scheme by qualifying the preamble by a number of provisos which are foreign to the Scheme of the General Clerical Service, and, it is believed, also of the Posts and Telegraphs Clerical Service.

Proviso (i) lays down that all clerks class (iii), who did not reach their maximum salary before 1st January...

===== Page 28 =====
January, 1938, must take as many as 12 years to attain the maximum salary of class (ii).

Proviso (ii) lays down that only those clerks in class (iii), who reached their maximum salary prior to 1st January, 1938, will enjoy the privilege of attaining the maximum salary of class (ii) in 9 years leaving the clerks falling under proviso (i) as many as three years behind them both in seniority and emoluments, even if the difference in service between both may have been only a month, seriously affecting their prospects and seniority of service by 1,096 days.

Proviso (iii) reduces the position of a clerk who joined the service on $60 per mensem, after passing the Senior Cambridge Examination to the level of the one who joined the service on $55 per mensem, after passing the Junior Cambridge Examination.

Proviso (iv) presumes as if the cancellation of the 1922 Scheme, with effect from 1st June, 1934, by the preamble of the 1934 Scheme which replaced it, did never take place and as if the 1922 Scheme is still in operation, (parallel to the 1934 Scheme and independent of it) until this proviso ventures to give it a new and defined existence under the New Scheme.

The preamble of the 1934 Scheme explicitly says as follows:

"The following Scheme for the Railway Clerical Service will come into force from the 1st June, 1934, from which date the scheme published on pages 307 to 310 inclusive of the Federated Malay States Government Year Book, 1931, will be regarded as cancelled."

The fact remains, however, that all clerks under the 1922 Scheme were, on its cancellation, absorbed into the Higher Division of the 1934 Scheme, with effect from 1st June, 1934, in terms of clause 2 of the 1934 Scheme.

Proviso (v) defines the method of absorption of Special Class Clerks into the New Scheme.

8. That the memorialists beg respectfully to quote herein the preamble of the New Scheme for the General Clerical Service which reads as follows:

"The following Scheme for the General and State Clerical Services will come into force from 1st January, 1938. All clerks other than Special Class Clerks appointed prior to that date will have the option of either

(a) coming on to this scheme at the point which they would have reached had the scheme been in force when they were appointed or promoted to their present class or grade

or

(b) remaining on their present scheme but in that case they will come on to this scheme on promotion. "

The...

===== Page 29 =====
The memorialists realise that it has been the impartial and earnest intentions of the Government to apply the same preamble as quoted above to all the three branches of the Clerical Service. It is, therefore, unbearably painful and depressing to note that this the very kernel of the New Scheme, and even the very spirit and purpose of the above preamble to give effect to the New Scheme in such a manner as to enable all clerks other than Special Class Clerks to come on "to this scheme at the point which they would have reached had the scheme been in force when they were appointed or promoted to their present class or grade" are being gravely jeopardised by the introduction of the provisos, particularly Nos. (i) and (iv), into the preamble of the scheme for the Railway Clerical Service.

9. That it is the most fervent prayer of the Association that the Government may generously be pleased to remove from the New Scheme provisos (i) to (v) of its preamble which, if allowed to remain, would, in their opinion, contribute to take away by the left hand what at great pains and forethought the right hand provided, and to replace them by the terms of the preamble of the Schemes for the General Clerical and Posts and Telegraphs Clerical Services.

For which act of kindness and sympathy the humble memorialists shall, as in duty bound, ever pray.

The Government Junior Officers' Association, Federated Malay States.

(Sd.) R.V. Karlakandan

President.

(Sd.) V. George

Hon: General Secretary.

===== Page 30 =====
Annexure "A"

THE GOVERNMENT JUNIOR OFFICERS' ASSOCIATION,
FEDERATED MALAY STATES.

Clerical Services Total Strength Special class & Superscale. First Class

General Clerical 1,567 107 6.8% 222 14.1%

Posts & Telegraphs 612 42 6.9% 95 15.5%

Railway 1,323 48 3.6% 177 13.4%

(Sd.) R.V. Karlakandan
President.

(Sd.) V. George
Hon: General Secretary.

===== Page 31 =====
Sir,

With reference to your memorial dated the 14th August, 1940, on the subject of the New Scheme for the Railway Clerical Service, I am directed to inform you that the Government has given the most careful consideration to the revision of the schemes for the General Clerical Service, the Posts and Telegraphs Clerical Service and the Railway Clerical Service. It is clearly desirable that the three Schemes should be co-related as far as possible but there are naturally differences in the three Services which make it impossible to have one scheme uniform in all its provisions. There are in the Railway Department certain conditions which entail special provisions in the Railway Clerical Service Scheme different from those in the schemes for the other two services.

2. In paragraph 4 of your memorial you suggest three amendments for consideration and I am to give below Government's considered replies on these three points:

(a) Pension Privileges.

The Railway Provident Fund which was approved by the Secretary of State for the Colonies was introduced with effect from the 1st July, 1936. All new entrants to the railway service on and after that date have been informed that they would be subject to the provisions of the Fund on appointment. The question of providing pension privileges to new entrants under the clerical scheme was considered and rejected by the Railway Board in June, 1940.

(b) Special Class Clerks.

The grading of specified posts as Special Class appointments in the Railway Department has been in operation since 1934 and Special Class posts have already been sanctioned where the duties justify such a classification, regard being had to the nature of the work and the responsibilities attaching to particular posts.

A percentage has not been specified in the New Scheme for the General and State Clerical Services nor that for the Posts and Telegraphs Clerical Service and there is no reason to insert a percentage in the Railway Clerical Scheme.

(c)...

===== Page 32 =====
(c) Preamble and application of the New Scheme.

Proviso (1). The application of this proviso does not in any way jeopardise the privileges of members of the Railway Clerical Service in relation to those of the General and State Clerical Services or the Posts and Telegraphs Clerical Service: under these schemes, clerks who had not reached the maximum of Class III prior to the 1st January, 1938, have no option but to come on to the New Scheme on promotion to Class II.

Proviso (ii). The same proviso is made in the General and State Clerical Services Scheme and the Posts and Telegraphs Clerical Service Scheme.

Proviso (iii). This proviso is also included in the General and State Clerical Services Scheme and it is considered desirable that uniformity of treatment should be extended to cover this point.

Proviso (iv). The inclusion of this proviso has in no way affected the relative position of the clerks who commenced on a salary of $40 per mensem.

This question had already received consideration previously and it is not proposed to vary the decisions already made and communicated to the clerks concerned. Clerks possessing higher educational qualifications were taken on at a higher initial salary and under normal conditions they attained the maximum salary of Class III earlier than clerks who started at $40 per mensem and consequently had the advantage of earlier consideration for promotion.

Proviso (v). The method adopted in effecting transfers of Special Class Clerks to the New Scheme is the same as in the other two Clerical Services.

I am, Sir,

Your obedient servant,

(Sd.) E.E.F. Pretty

Ag: Under Secretary to Government,
Federated Malay States.

===== Page 33 =====
THE RAILWAY CLERICAL SERVICE.

(F.S. 699/38.)

The following scheme for the Railway Clerical Service will come into force from the 1st January, 1938:

All clerks other than Special Class Clerks appointed prior to that date will have the option of either

(a) coming on to this scheme at the point which they would have reached had the scheme been in force when they were appointed or promoted to their present class or grade in the Open Lines Establishment (assuming always that individual clerks have not in the past been held back on account of inefficiency or unsatisfactory conduct)

or

(b) remaining on their present scheme but in that case they will come on to this scheme on promotion.

Provided that:

(i) Clerks, Class III, who had not reached the maximum salary of $95 per mensem before the 1st January, 1938, will, if they elect to remain on their present scheme, draw $100 per mensem after one year on $95 per mensem and, subject to their having passed the Junior Clerical Examination and obtaining satisfactory certificates from the Head of their Department, will be promoted to Class II under this scheme on $110 per mensem after completion of one year on $100 per mensem and then rise by annual increments of $5 per mensem to $160 per mensem, provided that no clerk who commenced on the salary of $60 per mensem will be promoted to Class II at a date earlier than that on which he would have been eligible for such promotion if he had commenced on a salary of $55 per mensem.

(ii) Clerks, Class III, who have passed the Junior Clerical Examination and who had reached the maximum salary prior to the 1st January, 1938, will, if they elect to remain on their present scheme, draw $100 per mensem after two years on $95 per mensem and $110 per mensem after two years on $100 per mensem and then rise by annual increments of $10 per mensem to $160 per mensem, excepting that clerks who commenced on the salary of $60 per mensem will remain on $100 per mensem for three years (they will receive a special allowance of $5 per mensem during the last year of that period) before being granted $110 per mensem. They will be regarded as promoted to Class II after completion of one year on $100 per mensem provided that no clerks who commenced on the salary of $60 per mensem will be regarded as promoted to Class II at a date earlier than that on which he would have been eligible for such promotion if he had commenced on a salary of $55 per mensem.

(iii) No Clerk, Class III (whether or not he had reached the maximum salary before the 1st January, 1938), who commenced on the salary of $60 per mensem and who elects to come on to this scheme, will be promoted to Class II at a date earlier than that on which he would have been eligible for such promotion if he had commenced on a salary of $55 per mensem.

===== Page 34 =====
(iv) In the case of Clerks, Class III, possessing educational qualifications not higher than Standard VII and who were appointed to the Higher Division prior to the 1st January, 1932, the salary scale shall be:

Class III ... ... ... $40-A5-100 per mensem.

(v) Special Class Clerks will come on to this scheme at the incremental stage not lower than the salary now drawn by them.

1. The Railway Clerical Service will be divided into two divisions, the Higher Division and the Lower Division.

2. Initial appointment will be to the Lower Division from which the Higher Division will be recruited as provided in paragraphs 12 to 15.

3. Every applicant for appointment to the Railway Clerical Service must have attained his 17th birthday and not yet have attained his 21st birthday, must have been born and educated in Malaya, must be of good character and must be the holder of the Oxford or Cambridge School Certificate.

4. (i) Applications for appointment to the Railway Clerical Service must be in the prescribed form and be addressed to the President, Clerical Appointments and Examinations Board, Federated Malay States Railways, Kuala Lumpur.

(ii) Vacant appointments will be given to candidates by selection and not necessarily according to their position in the list of applicants.

5. Clerks in the Lower Division are graded as follows:

(a) Grade II ... ... ... $40-A3-67 p.m.

(b) Grade I ... ... ... $70-A3-100 p.m.

(c) Special Grade ... ... ... $110-A5-150 p.m.

6. The period in respect of which a first increment is drawn, is calculated as follows:

(a) if the date of appointment (or promotion) is the first working day of a month, from the first day of that month;

(b) in other cases, from the first day of the next succeeding month.

7. (i) In order to qualify for promotion to Grade I, Clerks Grade II will be required to pass a departmental examination. This examination may be taken at any time during the first ten years of service, but no clerk who fails on four occasions will be permitted to sit again.

(ii) The scope of this examination will be:

(a) a paper on departmental work;

(b) a test in telegraphy for staff employed at stations;

(c) a test in typewriting for staff employed in general clerical duties.

(iii) A candidate will be deemed to have passed if he obtains not less than 40 per cent. of the possible marks for each subject, and not less than 50 per cent. of the total marks for the examination.

===== Page 35 =====
8. A Clerk, Grade II, who has passed the examination prescribed in paragraph 7 and has completed one year on the maximum salary of that grade will, subject to a satisfactory certificate from the Head of his Department as to his work and conduct, be promoted to Grade I.

9. Promotion to the Special Grade will be by selection alone and will depend upon general ability and efficiency. The total number of appointments in this grade will not exceed 5 per cent. of the total number of clerks in the Lower Division.

10. A Lower Division Clerk shall, on completing ten years' satisfactory service, become a depositor to the Railway Provident Fund.

11. The Lower Division will comprise 20 per cent. of the total Railway Clerical Service, which will include clerks who are supernumerary to the Higher Division.

12. The Higher Division will be recruited by competitive examination from clerks of the Lower Division who have completed not less than one year nor more than five years' satisfactory service but no candidate will be permitted to sit for this examination on more than three occasions.

13. (i) The examination will be held annually.

(ii) The subjects of the examination will be:

- Departmental work ... 100 marks
- A test in telegraphy for staff employed at stations, or a test in typewriting for staff employed in general clerical duties... 50 marks
- English and General Knowledge ... 100 marks
- Malay: A paper of the standard of Standard I of the Scheme for the examination in Malay of Government officers, comprising translation from Malay into English, composition from English into Malay and vocabulary 100 marks
- Interview ... 100 marks.

(iii) The Head of Department of every clerk who appears before the Clerical Appointments and Examinations Board will furnish a report as to his work, conduct and capabilities and due regard to these reports shall be paid by the Board in awarding marks to each candidate.

(iv) Candidates will be considered to have qualified for promotion to the Higher Division if they obtain not less than 40 per cent. of the possible marks for each subject and not less than 50 per cent. of the total possible marks for the examination.

14. Vacancies will be filled by the appointment of qualified candidates in the order of merit obtained in this examination.

The successful candidates will be promoted to the Higher Division as and when vacancies occur.

Clerks will rank for seniority in the order they obtained in the examination, or in the event of equal marks, by the respective dates of appointment as Lower Division Clerks.

===== Page 36 =====
15. Candidates who have attained the necessary qualifying standard, but who owing to the absence of vacancies are not promoted to the Higher Division, will, on completion of five years' satisfactory service, be appointed supernumerary to the Higher Division establishment with effect from the first day of the month following the completion of five years' service, and will rank for seniority as from the date of such appointment.

16. (i) Clerks in the Higher Division are classified as follows:

(a) Class III ... ... $55-A5-100 p.m.
(b) Class II ... ... $110-A5-160 p.m.
(c) Class I ... ... $170-A10-210 p.m.
(d) Clerks, Special Class ... ... $225-A10-275 p.m.

(ii) This classification applies to the personnel only of the Clerical Service and is not applicable to clerical posts as allocated to Departments and Offices. Any clerk may be called upon to fill any clerical post in any office on his own personal salary.

17. The period in respect of which a first increment is drawn, is calculated as follows:

(a) if the date of appointment (or promotion) is the first working day of a month, from the first day of that month
(b) in other cases, from the first day of the next succeeding month.

18. A Clerk, Class III, shall, on completing ten years' satisfactory service, including service in the Lower Division, become a depositor to the Railway Provident Fund.

19. Clerks in Class III will be required to pass an examination to be known as the Junior Clerical Examination in order to qualify for promotion to Class II.

20. (i) The Junior Clerical Examination will be held in November each year and the subjects of this examination will be:

(a) Railway work in accordance with the published syllabus.
(b) A paper on Malay.
(c) English composition, e.g., writing a clear and grammatical account of some recent local occurrence, or an essay, and writing a letter.
(d) An interview with a view to testing the candidate's general intelligence and fitness for increased responsibility.

(ii) Each subject will be allotted 100 marks. The marks required for a pass are not less than 40 per cent. of the possible marks for each subject and not less than 50 per cent. of the total possible marks for the examination.

(iii) Any candidate who fails in the examination but obtains 80 per cent. of the marks in any subject will be exempted from further examination in that subject.

===== Page 37 =====
21. A Clerk, Class III, who has passed the Junior Clerical Examination and has completed one year on the maximum salary of Class III will, subject to a satisfactory certificate from his Head of Department as to his work and conduct, be promoted to Class II.

22. The number of posts in Class I will be fixed by the General Manager from time to time in accordance with the requirements of the Railway Service but the number of such posts shall not be less than 15 per cent. of the total clerical establishment. No promotion will be made unless the number of clerks in Class I falls short of the number authorised.

23. Promotion from Class II to Class I will depend on vacancies and will ordinarily be made by the Head of Department from clerks on the maximum salary of Class II, due consideration being given to the qualifications and seniority of the candidates. A clerk of exceptional ability and conduct who has attained a salary of not less than $140 per mensem and is specially recommended by the Head of his Department for accelerated promotion to a vacancy in Class I may, however, appear before the Clerical Appointments and Examinations Board who will examine the case for such accelerated promotion and make recommendations to the General Manager.

24. (i) The number of posts in Special Class will be fixed by the General Manager from time to time in accordance with the requirements of the Railway Service and no promotion will be made unless the number of clerks in this class falls short of the number authorised.

(ii) Promotion to Special Class will be by selection on the occurrence of vacancies, from clerks in Class I, and the determining factor will be merit and not seniority.

25. The interviews and examinations provided for in paragraphs 4, 13, 20 and 23 will be conducted by a Clerical Appointments and Examinations Board, nominated by the General Manager, consisting of the Head of a Department as President and four officers of other Departments of whom not less than two shall be in Grade B.

26. (i) Before any clerk is permitted to draw an increment of salary provided in this scheme, he will be required to obtain from the Head of his Department a certificate to the effect that his conduct has been good and his service satisfactory. It is the duty of the Head of Department to refuse the certificate in any case in which the clerk has been guilty of negligence or misconduct or has failed to perform his duties in a satisfactory manner. This certificate will be forwarded to the Chief Accountant.

(ii) It will be the duty of the Chief Accountant to see that the necessary certificate has been obtained before salary is drawn under these rules.

27. All persons recruited under this scheme are required to qualify in elementary first aid within five years from the date of their first appointment. Failure so to qualify may result in stoppage of increments.

===== Page 38 =====
RAILWAY TECHNICAL ASSISTANTS.

(G. 1068/23, G. 3032/24, G. 2300/25 and G. 611/32.)
(With effect from 1st January, 1926.)

Apprentice ... ... ...

1st and 2nd years $30 p.m. Examination
3rd and 4th years and any extended period $40 p.m.

The increase of allowance will be governed by the ordinary incremental date as laid down in the scheme.

(These subsistence allowances are liable to alteration.)

First Technical Examination ... Grade III, $60-$5-95 p.m.

Grade II ... $100-$10-140 p.m.

Second Technical Examination and bar ... $150-$10-190 p.m.

Grade I ... $200-$10-250 p.m.

Special Grade ... $260-$15-350 p.m.

Federated Malay States Government Press.

17720—1,410—18.7.40.

===== Page 39 =====
COPY FOR REGISTRATION
RECEIVED
260CT1940
C.O. REGY MALAY STATES.

FROM High Commissioner
D. 24th October, 1940.
R. 25th " " 01.30 hrs.

No. 85 F.M.S.

2. My despatch No. 144 of 21st September 1940.
Following from Railway Clerks begins. Clerks Class 3 with educational qualifications other than Cambridge certificate appointed $(S.S.) 40 per month Railway Clerical Service respectfully submit that their seniority for promotion to Class 2 hitherto maintained under Colonial Regulation 38 not safeguarded under the new scheme. Ruling in General Managers Circular memoranda 1662/25 of 15th March 1939. He says that the High Commissioner's decision in 4 in F.S.4405/36 of the 12th January 1937 subsequently upheld by your Honour overlooked only in Memorialists case. Seniority of clerks appointed $(S.S.) 55 and 60 safeguarded by providing them with equal footing on promotion to Class 2. Seniority of clerks including seventh standard certificate holders safeguarded in General Clerical Service under Colonial Regulation 38. In Posts and Telegraphs by applying same commencing salary $(S.S.) 55 under the new scheme to all clerks irrespective of educational qualifications and different commencing salaries under old scheme. Memorialists perform same work and passed all departmental examinations as holders of Cambridge Certificate Government informs matter referred your Honour. Pray safeguard seniority rights earned before introduction of new scheme by extending similar treatment as accorded colleagues in sister service by causing promotion to Class 2 on completion of 10 years Class 3 as per new scheme alternatively applying salaries scale proper of new scheme retrospectively from the date of appointment. Memorial follows message ends. Petitioners in effect ask to be treated as if originally appointed $(S.S.) 55 per month and I can see no grounds for acceding. Newboult now on way home could if desired explain case fully.

===== Page 40 =====
50007

167.

===== Page 41 =====
Petitions. Members of the Federated Malay States Railway Clerical Service on the subject of the revised 1938 clerical scheme. 1940. MS Records of the British Colonial Office CO 273/660/3. The National Archives (Kew, United Kingdom). State Papers Online Colonial, link.gale.com/apps/doc/WEUEMJ830469493/SPOC?u=nuslib&sid=bookmark-SPOC&xid=2112e8cf. Accessed 28 Feb. 2026.

Gale Document Number: GALE|WEUEMJ830469493

