===== Page 1 =====
Group CO
Class 273
Piece 676/4.

===== Page 2 =====
Policy - Malaya.
Discussions with 4 views of Prominent Ex-Malayans.

Previous 5 1675

Subsequent 34.531

C.O. 273/676/4

FILE A.

===== Page 3 =====
Mr. Lloyd has seen and agrees.

Sir G. Gater

The Secretary of State has agreed to accede to the suggestions made in the course of the debates in the House of Lords that he should see various distinguished ex-Malayans and discuss various matters arising out of the policy set out in the White Paper. The names suggested by Lord Marchwood are as follows:

Sir Arthur Richards,
Sir Laurence Guillemard,
Sir Andrew Caldecott,
Sir Richard Winstedt,
Sir Cecil Clementi,
Sir George Maxwell,
Sir Frank Swettenham,

but Sir E. Gent has suggested, and I understand the Secretary of State has agreed, that it would be desirable to widen this party by including Sir Shenton Thomas and also two unofficial members of the Federal Council (Mr. Hake and Mr. Shearn). Sir A. Richards is of course not available.

I understand that the Secretary of State has also decided that it would be better to see all these gentlemen together rather than separately.

I submit a draft letter for the Secretary of State's signature on this basis.

15.2.46

===== Page 4 =====
To Sir S. Thomas
" Sir A. Galdewitt
" Sir R. Winstedt
" Sir L. Suffrenna
" A. B. E. Hake
" S. D. Shearn
" Sir Q. Maxwell
" Sir C. Blementi
" Sir J. Swertenham

Corso - 18.2.46

List of addresses of 1-9.

Mr Pastin

With the S. of S.'s permission, Mr A. S. Haynes has now been invited (ordinarily by Sir E. Gent) to join the discussion with the S. of S. at 3 p.m. on Friday.

I submit

(a) notes on the individuals who will take part in the discussion and their points of view, as directed by yourself.

(b) a general note as directed by the S.

===== Page 5 =====
These documents are to be found opposite, with the general note on top. There are four spare sets at the back of the file, and I have kept a set for myself.

A. T. Bourdillon
20.2.

I have now added a note about Captain Gammans, who I understand may also be present at the meeting.

A. T. B. 2½

This meeting has now had to be postponed until Tuesday the 26th February.

There is a great deal of "meat" in the very useful notes which Mr. Bourdillon has prepared at No.11 which the Secretary of State will no doubt wish to read carefully before the meeting.

Since the note was prepared, we have received from Sir George Maxwell an article (copy attached but which we had already seen) on "Malayan Union: Amalgamation or Federation". Sir George Maxwell has intimated that he will be bringing copies of this memorandum with him to the meeting. No doubt his intention would be to hand them round so that discussion can be focused on his points. Account has been taken of this memorandum in Mr. Bourdillon's note on Sir George Maxwell in No.11 but, in view of Sir George's declared intention the Secretary of State will no doubt wish to have also a copy of the document itself.

99.9.
22.2.46

M. Malcolm
Meeting held on Tuesday 24½ with Mr. Crouch Jones

It will be necessary for me to speak to Mr. Crouch Jones on Thursday morning. The point in question is whether the Secretary will be held with Mr. Crouch Jones, instead of Mr. Bourdillon.

===== Page 6 =====
12. B. S. Steahn 19. 2. 46
13. J. Gammans 19. 2. 46
14. Sir Slenton Thomas 19. 2. 46
15. A. Maxwell 19. 2. 46
16. Sir B. Blementi 19. 2. 46
17. R. Winstedt 19. 2. 46
18. H. B. F. Hale 19. 2. 46
19. Sir A. Baldecott 20. 2. 46
20. R. Winstedt 20. 2. 46
21. Sir S. Swettenham 20. 2. 46
22. Lord Baptist Gammans 21. 2. 46
23. Lord Marchwood 21. 2. 46
24. Inns on 23
25. Lord Baptist Gammans 22. 2. 46
26. Sir L. Guillemard 22. 2. 46
27. Sir L. Guillemard 22. 2. 46
28. Sir A. Baldecott 22. 2. 46
29. Sir B. Blementi 22. 2. 46
30. Sir S. Swettenham 26. 2. 46
31. B. S. Steahn 27. 2. 46
32. Sir B. Blementi 27. 2. 46
33. Sir L. Guillemard 27. 2. 46
34. Sir L. Guillemard 28. 2. 46
35. Sir B. Blementi 1. 3. 46
36. A. S. Haynes 2. 3. 46

===== Page 7 =====
37. A. S. Haynes 4.3.46
38. A. S. Haynes 2?
39. Sir S. Thomas 6.3.46
40. S. Maxwell 7.3.46
41. Sir S. Thomas 8.3.46

Putty.
A.T.B. 194
at age

===== Page 8 =====
Mr. Bourdillon

You have already seen this interesting letter, and you will no doubt want to have it for record in the Dept.

Mr. Creech Jones has not yet seen it.

Ethelville

8.3.46

===== Page 9 =====
8th March, 1946.

This is just a line to thank you for your letter of 6th March enclosing a copy of your reply to Sir Cecil Clement's memorandum on Malaya.

I will certainly see that your letter is brought to the Secretary of State's attention, and I am sure that he will be most grateful to you for sending a copy.

Yours sincerely,

E. MELVILLE.

Private Secretary.

Sir Shenton Thomas, GCMG, OBE.

===== Page 10 =====
Chindles,
High Salvington,
Worthing.

7th March, 1946.

Sir,

I have the honour to submit a copy of some notes taken by me of the discussion at the Colonial Office on the 26th February on the White Paper on Malayan Union. My apologies for the scrappiness of the notes and the delay in typing are contained in the paragraph at the end of the notes.

I have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servant,

To The Under Secretary of State
for the Colonies.

===== Page 11 =====
These Notes have been transcribed by me from pencil jottings at the meeting. I am not sure whether the meeting was confidential; and as a matter of precaution I am only sending a copy to the persons actually present.

There were present at the meeting Mr. A. Creech Jones (in the Chair), Sir George Gater, Sir Edward Gent, Mr. Paskin, Mr. Lloyd, and one or two other officials whom I do not know. There were also present Sir Frank Swettenham, Sir Cecil Clementi, Sir Richard Winstedt, Mr. A.S. Haynes, Capt. Gammans, and Mr. Egmont Hake.

Mr. Creech Jones opened, saying that over a long period the Colonial Office had given much attention to the constitution of Malaya and had had the benefit of the experience of Civil Servants and others. There had been a "Working Committee." Contributions from outside had been gratefully received. There were problems of Race and problems of Economic Development. The present policy was one to commend itself to the people of Malaya; to satisfy the aspirations of all involved, and the comments of the World. Some Sultans were not altogether happy as they now understand the proposals. The Sultans' criticisms were being carefully studied. Some modifications were being made. He wanted to gather up the feelings of the people.

Sir Cecil Clementi: A Union of British Malaya and another Union of British Borneo were desirable. The White Paper would impede the Union. Three main objections:

(1) Governor-General misconceived. Geography and history against it. Foredoomed to failure.

(2) A Governor of the Malayan Union at Kuala Lumpur was outright annexation. A violation of Treaties. Most objectionable that the Governor should preside at meetings to discuss Muhammadan religion. Malays would resent an Infidel in that capacity. There would be repercussions in Pakistan.

(3) The proposal to exclude Singapore cut out the heart of Malaya. It would be still-born.

(4) Malayan Union Citizenship would create a racial conflict like that in Palestine.

===== Page 12 =====
Borneo is three and a half times the size of the British Island; divided between the Dutch and the British, as it now is, it is like Southern and Northern Ireland. There should be a policy of co-operation between the Dutch and the British and the aim should be self-government for the whole of Borneo.

In British Malaya the proposal to have two Governors and a Governor General made top-heavy and uneconomical administration.

Setul and Patani were inhabited by Malays and the policy should be to ask the Siamese Government to regard itself as a trustee for these territories.

The present system of a Governor of the Straits Settlements and ex officio High Commissioner for the Malay States cannot be bettered. Brunei should continue to be under the High Commissioner. A Royal Commission should be appointed to ascertain the wishes of the people of Sarawak. If they wish to continue as they now are the Governor of British North Borneo Colony should be High Commissioner to Sarawak. The present Bill should be confined to Labuan. The White Paper should be withdrawn unreservedly. Any new system of administration should be elaborated over a course of years. A man should be sent out as Governor of the Colony and High Commissioner for the Malay States to take up the threads where they had been dropped. Great suspicion had been engendered in Malaya. Send out an officer of Malayan experience, and a man trusted by the Malays. Knowledge of the country was essential. He suggested Sir Arthur Richards who had not been involved in the recent discussions.

Sir Frank Swettenham. We are here to discuss the White Paper. It seems to me that the criticisms dispose of it. The policy of the White Paper and the assurances given by Sir Samuel Wilson won't sit down together.

This is the worst possible moment for any change. The Malays have been three and a half years under the Japanese because we could not protect them. Certainly reconsider the policy. But wait until you have some information. You haven't consulted the Rulers or the people. In the strongest terms he urged that there should be delay, and delay for a considerable time. When things are normal again there should be sympathetic investigation by competent persons.

Sir George Maxwell. (Here, of course, I could take no pencil notes. To the best of my recollection and belief the following is the purport of what I said.)

I quoted the words of the following Jurisdiction Act 1890 as follows:-

===== Page 13 =====
Preamble. Whereas by treaty, capitulation, grant, usage, sufferance and other lawful means, Her Majesty the Queen has jurisdiction with divers foreign Countries, and it is expedient to consolidate the Act relating to the exercise of Her Majesty's jurisdiction out of Her Dominions. Be it therefore enacted:

Section 1. It is and shall be lawful for Her Majesty the Queen to hold, exercise and enjoy any jurisdiction which Her Majesty now has, or may at any time hereafter have, within a foreign country in the same and as ample a manner as if Her Majesty had acquired that jurisdiction by the cession or conquest of territory.

Section 3. Every act and thing done in pursuance of any jurisdiction of Her Majesty in any foreign country shall be as valid as if it had been done according to the local law then in force in that country.

Definitions.

The expression "jurisdiction" includes power.
The expression "foreign countries" means any country or place out of Her Majesty's Dominions.

I said that this was usurpation pure and simple. The Government proposed to take action under an Act of 55 years ago in the days of jingoism, and in disregard of the principles of trusteeship and freedom from fear.

Everyone knew of the protests by the Malays and the mass demonstrations in places. We at this table had heard of the protests from the Sultans concerning the manner in which they had signed the treaties.

Against this we had the statement made by Lord Addison. On 19th December he told the House of Lords that it was not a case of "take it or lump it" and that "nothing could be more conciliatory than the steps we had taken and shall continue to take. Excellent progress is being made in the friendliest atmosphere." On 29th January Lord Addison rejected a suggestion for an enquiry into conditions in Malaya and referred to "the elaborate, painstaking and long-continued investigations and negotiations which have taken place". I suggested that Lord Addison had been misinstructed. I submitted that not a single person who has his home in Malaya has a word to say in favour of the White Paper. The Malaya born Chinese must regard it with horror equal to that of the Malays. The White Paper completely failed to appreciate the difference between the Malaya born Chinese and the China born Chinese. The loyalty, courage and behaviour of the Malaya born Chinese throughout the Japanese campaign and the Japanese occupation had been beyond all praise. The only persons in favour of the Bill were the alien immigrants who expected to enjoy "citizenship".

===== Page 14 =====
As "Protectors" we had abandoned the Malays to the Japanese.

As "Advisers" we were now to betray the Malays to Chinese immigrants. The Malays might forgive us for having failed as "Protectors" but they could never forgive us for betrayal.

The usurpation in contemplation was a direct challenge to fifty nations, and there was not the slightest doubt that some of them would take it up. We had seen what Mr. Vyshinsky had done in respect of our action in Greece where we had been quite right. We knew what he had said in respect of our action in Indonesia where we had been quite right. We must await what he will say in respect of our action in Malaya where we are quite wrong. The position is one of imminent danger to the British nation. Before it is too late Mr. Hall should have the courage to ask the House to allow him to defer the reading of the Bill until he has had time for further consultations with the Rulers and for opening discussions with the people. As Sir Cecil Clementi had said, we should begin again where we had left off, go back that is to say to the Federated States as they were, to the unfederated States as they were, and to the different Settlements as they were. In order not to prejudge the position the appointment should not be that of "Governor of the Malayan Union", but as Sir Cecil had said "High Commissioner for the Malay States". If we started again like that the Malays would be ready to co-operate, but if a "Governor" went out the Malays would say that they were not there to bury a corpse, but that they were there in the hope of a new life.

Again, in order not to prejudge the situation, instructions should be issued to cancel the present customs duties imposed in Penang in anticipation of the present Bill becoming law.

The Secretary of State was in a trap of his own making. The other nations were watching him like eagles and when his mistake was beyond remedy, but not until then, they would pounce.

Sir Richard Winstedt. For the first time in history the British Government has driven a wedge between the Rulers and their subjects. The Rulers in signing the treaties yielded to British intimidation and the Malay people, whilst sympathising with the Rulers, feel nevertheless that the Rulers should not have yielded in this manner.

Sir Richard then discussed the economic future of Malaya, with particular reference to the inter-racial feeling engendered by the White Paper. He referred to it as a "bread and butter" problem. He urged that no action should be taken until the position in Malaya was again normal.

Mr. A.S. Haynes. His Majesty's Government would not wish to do anything against the wishes of the people. Nevertheless, the people had not been consulted and their wishes had not been

===== Page 15 =====
Accertained. He referred to Mr. Creech Jones' statement that the policy was one to satisfy the aspirations of all involved. Against that, he would put the demonstrations against the policy and the violently anti-British demonstrations. He particularly mentioned those in Kedah and Kuala Lumpur. A fundamental principle had not been observed. The position was jeopardised. The intention was to introduce by force and not by persuasion. The only course is to postpone any action until the feelings of the people have been honestly ascertained. The whole thing is a ghastly tragedy. The Malays have always had the deepest loyalty to the British. He himself, after a tour of Asia some years ago, had said in his report that the Malays were the only people in Asia who were content under a British régime. All that had now been changed. He begged that there should be delay before any ineradicable step was taken. There should be a statement in the House to clarify the position, and the Malays should be told that their views would be considered before any change was made. Most Malays are now in favour of Federation. The natural way is to obtain their consent. Go back to the position as it was before. We cannot afford to arouse anti-British feelings in Malaya. Under this policy, the Malays would be submerged, and later the British would be submerged. The Chinese demand that Malaya should be the Nineteenth Province of China would be realised.

Sir Frank Swettenham referred to the letter from the Sultan of Kedah. About 150 years ago, when Kedah ceded Penang to the East India Company, that Company bound itself by treaty to protect Kedah against Siam in the event of Siamese resentment against the Kedah action. The Siamese did invade Kedah, and the East India Company did nothing.

Capt. L.D. Gammans, M.P. You are trying to tidy up, and you are doing it on paper. The problem of the indigenous Chinese is different from that of the Chinese immigrant. Then there is the case of Borneo. He particularly objected to the manner in which the C.O. had set about its proposals. It had met with the hostility and opposition of everyone that he had met. It had made the Malays anti-British. The White Paper had been issued prematurely. The Malay Rulers had not been allowed to meet jointly. There had been no consultation with Penang, Province Wellesley, and Malacca. The Yam Tuan was up in arms. "Citizenship" was far too easy. There were no safeguards for the Malay Rulers. The White Paper will hand over Malaya to China. There is nothing to prevent a Chinese from being appointed a District Officer. There was unnecessary interference with Muhammadan law and Malay Custom. There was no mention of immigration. A second Palestine would be created. The Bill was due for second reading in the House of Commons in two weeks, and there would be a "three-line Whip".

Mr. Egmont Hake agreed with Capt. Gammans. What the C.O. is trying to do is first rate, but it has not been sufficiently well explained. That could have been done. Speaking as a

===== Page 16 =====
"Realist," he thought that it was certain that the Malays would be submerged under Chinese and other immigrants. He was against "picking up the threads." "Indonesia" would result. The Malays would distrust us, negotiations would fail. MacMichael has failed. There were prospects of civil strife. Someone ought to go back to explain.

Sir Cecil Clementi. Kuo Min Tang is as anxious to see the last of the Europeans in Asia as were the Japanese. When Chiang Kai Shek was his opposite number in Canton (he himself being Governor of Hong Kong) he declared a policy of "making Hong Kong a desert." Essential to distinguish between Malaya-born Chinese and the Chinese from China. The latter are a menace. They do not wish to be Malay subjects, though they might be prepared to be British subjects. They would be a destructive element in the Malayan Union. They are hostile to the Malays. Have a contempt for them. Are not good citizens. You cannot absorb Chinese even of long residence. The Malays have hitherto been friendly to us. Do not encourage the Chinese to dominate. If you do they will evict us. If we will act fairly the Malays will be loyal to us.

Sir Richard Winstedt. He gave three specific instances of the manner in which the Chinese boycott the Malays in trade. One was in Kelantan, where a Malay rubber dealer was boycotted by Chinese lorry owners because he was setting up in rivalry to a Chinese rubber dealer. Another instance was in Kedah, where Malay middlemen between the fishermen and the fishmarket were boycotted by the Chinese who had the monopoly of the ice business. Another instance was also in Kedah, in connection with P.W.D. contracts. Referring to Mr. Hake's statement that "Indonesia" would result if there was delay, he maintained that unless there was delay we should have "Indonesia."

Mr. Creech Jones. Said that a White Paper would be issued the next day containing Sir Harold MacMichael's report on his visit to Malaya. Its aim was to correct the misrepresentations on the subject. It would be seen that an experienced Malayan Civil Servant accompanied him and that there had been no duress to the Rulers.

Yet another White Paper would be issued later showing some modifications that would be made in deference to some representations relating to Muhammadan religion. Mr. Lloyd would explain what they were.

Mr. Lloyd. He gave a short summary of these modifications.

Sir George Maxwell. He asked whether Sir Harold's statement was "ex parte." The Malay Rulers most certainly declared that there had been duress. Unless there was some agreed account of what happened they would be compelled to defend themselves, and unpleasant recriminations would inevitably result.

===== Page 17 =====
Mr. Creech Jones. There was no time to consult the Malay Rulers. The matter was urgent because of public anxiety, which must be put at rest. Even if there was time, the usual procedure is for an officer to submit his own report upon his mission. Sir Harold was an officer with a very high reputation and the Government had the fullest confidence in him.

The proceedings then terminated.

I must make two apologies. The first is for the scrappy nature of these notes, due to the difficulty of attending what was being said and jotting down a note of what had been said. I have also to apologize for the delay, due to the difficulty of finding someone to whom I could dictate these notes.

George Hassan

6th March 1946.

===== Page 18 =====
The Pound House,
Brabourne Lees,
Ashford
March 6, 1946.

Sir,

Sir Cecil Clementi has furnished me with a copy of the memorandum which I assume was discussed with the Secretary of State at the conference on Malaya towards the end of February.

I enclose for the information of the Secretary of State a copy of the reply which I have sent to Sir Cecil Clementi.

I am Sir

Your obedient servant
The Private Secretary
to the Secretary

Shenton Thema

===== Page 19 =====
I am very grateful to you for sending me a copy of your scheme for the reorganisation of the political system of Malaya. It arrived here while I was paying some visits in the west of England, and for that reason my reply has been delayed. For the same reason I was unfortunately unable to accept the invitation of the Secretary of State to confer with him and others on the subject.

2. I am sorry, but I fear I do not agree with your scheme. I feel that under it there would be the same preference to Malays that there has been under State rule in the policy of decentralisation. This has caused the greatest dissatisfaction among the non-Malays and especially the Chinese. In my opinion this dissatisfaction is justified. In the six Colonies in which I have served, with the sole exception of Malaya, the policy of the Government has always been equal treatment and equal opportunities for all. I do not see how H.M.G. could possibly resist the demands for such a policy in Malaya which would surely have been made very soon by India and China if these proposals had not been framed. I am fond of the Malays and I have many friends among them, but this does not shake my conviction that the preferential treatment which hitherto has been accorded to them has been definitely harmful.

3. I know no country under British rule where aliens in a native State are subjects of the Ruler of that State or are subject to his authority, save in Malaya. It is not so in the native States in India or the powerful Emirates in the Northern Provinces of Nigeria. And, to come nearer home, it is not so in the Dutch East Indies. The Malay Rulers are the rulers of the Malays, and there is plenty for them to do in this sphere if they are really interested; I don't think they are.

4. The last thing that a non-Malay Asiatic wants is to be the subject of a Malay Sultan. What he wants in British territory is to be a British subject or a British Protected person. I am afraid I cannot see why anyone in Malaya should not be one or the other provided that he has the necessary qualifications.

5. During internment I spent many months in preparing a memorandum on post-war Malaya. I did not finish it till February 1944. I sent it to the Colonial Office when I reached home and I found that there was little difference in principle between my proposals and those already approved by H.M.G. I agree, therefore, in principle with the official scheme. But in certain matters of detail and in the method of approach to the Rulers I disagree strongly. I think, for example, that to burden Malaya with a Governor-General and two Governors is unnecessary and extravagant. My own proposal was for one Governor (not a High Commissioner) with a Resident-General in charge of all the States, and the Colonial Secretary as Administrator in charge of the Colony. There was to be one establishment and one budget, thus simplifying administration which is one of the crying needs of Malaya. Per contra, the C.O. scheme provides serious and perpetual complications. An obvious example is the necessity for apportioning Malayan expenditure and Malayan revenue between Singapore and the Union. How can anyone say the amounts that should

===== Page 20 =====
Be charged against these two Governments in respect of, say, the annual contribution to the Imperial College of Agriculture, Trinidad? Or, how is postal and telegraph revenue to be apportioned between the two Governments? There are endless and annual opportunities for squabbling, with the resultant waste of time. As Governor and High Commissioner you will recall the troubles we had with this sort of thing and I should have thought that any scheme of reorganization would have put the abolition of such difficulties high on its list of priorities.

6. I am afraid it must be admitted that MacMichael's mission was very ill-timed. I know how dazed and bewildered I was at finding myself free, against all expectations, after 32 years of internment, and it is not difficult to imagine the state of mind of the Rulers, and for that matter the people too, when they realised that they had indeed been released from an existence of almost unbearable misery and fear. This was surely not the time to damp down their joy and thankfulness by telling them that their powers and responsibilities were to be curtailed. I am not surprised that the poor little things accepted H.M.G.'s decision; they would probably have accepted anything then. But they are now beginning to 'come to' and I am not surprised that they are protesting. No doubt they have had zealous proddings from their friends at home: you have of course seen the various letters in the 'Times', all of which stress the inequity of the proposals as relating to the Malays but are discreetly silent in regard to the inequity of the previous policy as relating to the alien Asiatics.

7. I am not sure what is the best course now, but I am sure that the policy in principle is right.

8. As regards Borneo, in my memorandum I recommended the creation of one territory comprising British Borneo, Labuan, Brunei, and Sarawak. This would be a very fine territory, large and important enough to have its own Governor.

9. As regards Sarawak, I am not in favour of any Commission. So far as I am aware, a paramount chief (with or without his Council according to the tribal custom) speaks for his people. I am prepared to bet that this was the procedure (if there was any consultation at all) when the territory of Aden was taken over from India and converted into a Crown Colony and Protectorate. Some 20-30 sheikdoms were involved. The consent of the people is inherent in the consent of the paramount chief whether he is called Emir or Kabaka or Sultan or merely chief.

Now, the Rajah is the paramount chief of Sarawak. This is indisputable. He has set up a Council on which are selected native members. As I understand the position, he and those native members have agreed to transfer the territory to the Crown. To my mind this settles the matter.

10. In considering this matter of Malaya, I feel that we must in common fairness to them have strict regard to the interests of all the peoples involved, not merely of one section. On this basis a continuance of Malay rule would be unfair.

Sincerely yours,

P.S. No doubt you have seen Winsted's letter in today's 'Times'. The implication is that MacMichael told the Regent of Kedah that unless he signed the agreement he would not be agreed as Sultan His Majesty. I do not believe it. I trust neither the Regent nor Winsted.

===== Page 21 =====
Warwickshire War Agricultural Executive Committee
Telephone Leamington 1911/2/8/4/5

Executive Officer:
B. Elgar.

GUY'S CLIFFE AVENUE,
LEAMINGTON SPA.

* Department
* File Reference ASH/ET.

As from: "Brooklands",
11 Warwick New Road,
Leamington Spa.

From: A.S. Haynes, C.M.G., J.P.

To: Miss Baker,
Private Secretary to
The Secretary of State,
Colonial Office,
Downing Street, London, S.W.1.

Dear Miss Baker,

Thank you for your letter of the 4th March. May I correct one slight misunderstanding which appears from your letter.
My remarks were not a shorthand record but were written down by me afterwards from notes and recollection, for the very reason that there was (I think regrettably) no shorthand record of the proceedings taken at the time.

Yours sincerely,

A.S. Haynes.

* Please quote Reference as above

===== Page 22 =====
4th March, 1946.

Dear Mr. Haynes,

In Mr. Hall's continued absence from the Office owing to indisposition, I write to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 2nd March enclosing a shorthand record copy of the remarks that you made at the meeting held last Friday week.

Mr. Hall will, I am sure, be interested to read this when he returns to the Office.

Yours sincerely,

Private Secretary.

A.S. Haynes, Esq., CMG, JP.

===== Page 23 =====
WARWICKSHIRE
WARWICKSHIRE AGRICULTURAL EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Head Office:
6, GUY'S CLIFFE AVENUE,
LEAMINGTON SPA.
Telephone 1911/2/3/4/5.

Chief Executive Officer:
T. Cooper Robinson

2nd March, 1946.

* Department...
* File Reference...

From: A.S. Haynes, G.M.G., J.P.,
Private: "Brooklands",
Address: 11, Warwick New Road,
Leamington Spa.

To: The Rt. Hon. G.H. Hall, P.C., M.P.,
Colonial Office,
Downing Street,
London, S.W.1.

Personal.

Dear Mr. Hall,

Proposed Malayan Union.

As there was no shorthand record taken down of all that was said at the Conference I enclose herewith for your information a copy of my remarks. You will have much to read; but I hope you will have time to read this.

Hoping that you are fully recovered from your illness,

Yours sincerely,

A.S. Haynes.

===== Page 24 =====
Conference at the Colonial Office at 3 p.m. on Tuesday 26th February, 1946.

Remarks made at the Conference by Mr. A. S. Haynes, C.M.G.

I warmly welcome the invitation of the Secretary of State to us today to express our views on the proposed Malayan Union. At the outset I should say that I agree with the views of the previous speakers, so that on those points I need not recapitulate. The situation is serious. The time is short. The need is vital to avoid any irrevocable step which will undermine the loyalty of the Malays and shatter the wonderful trust and confidence which they have always shown in our words and actions.

It was with the deepest pleasure that I heard the Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State say these words which I noted down: that it was the object of His Majesty's Government "to satisfy the aspirations of the people concerned." Now before aspirations can be satisfied they must be known; and before they are known the people must be consulted. In this case the people concerned have not been consulted. The White Paper policy has been dictated and published as something already determined to be carried through. It has been so rushed that there could be no time for adequate consideration or understanding.

Copy I have in my hand a letter from the Sultan of Kedah of which I understand the Secretary of State has received a copy in similar terms addressed to other retired officials present here today. He is not the only Ruler who has protested in such terms. Further there have been mass meetings of Malays in many parts of the Peninsula (a procession of 50,000 in one place) demonstrating their intense dissatisfaction. Such a thing has never been known amongst our friends the Malays. Their loyalty is strained to the utmost. In 1936 I was Chairman of a Commission which toured nearly all the countries of Asia. It was not a political mission. But I came back saying that in my experience there was only one people in Asia which was completely satisfied with having their country under the protective administration of a Western nation, and that people was the Malays who were deeply loyal to us. We have endangered that loyalty. The new policy being imposed on them will in time drive them towards Indonesian nationalists. It will be the end of the Malays in their own country, and ultimately of the British too. For the China-born Chinese are out to conquer the country. Hordes will come in; acquire this automatic citizenship, add political domination to their economic domination,

===== Page 25 =====
Force our proposals on an unwilling people. The friendship and trust between the British and Malays has been a precious thing; let not this be destroyed. At this vital moment let us who have the power be patient with those who have not; let us air grievances by discussion and solve them by agreement. These are the principles outraged by Hitler but now adopted for all countries by the United Nations.

Force is dangerous: it may be met by force, in the future. How much better to get security and peace by the indissoluble ties of loyalty.

P.S. Since writing this I have seen the powerful letter of Mr. Arthur Bryant in the "Times" of 2nd March. While urging attention to the whole of it, I extract the following: "To change the status of any friendly state while it is in occupation of one's own troops is morally wrong, whether the motive be to extend trade - not always a wholly beneficial process to native peoples - or the nobler one of hastening the advance to parliamentary democracy." He points out that it was our own failure to fulfil our treaty obligations as Protecting Power that has caused the occupation of these territories by our troops. Is not this a compelling argument for the obvious and natural course of temporarily re-introducing the previous civil administration so that discussions as to change of status may go on in the free atmosphere of non-military government?

===== Page 26 =====
Dear Mr. Haynes,

I have seen your article reproduced in the local newspapers and it has brought tears of gratitude to my eyes to think that you have not forgotten us, and believe me, that such sentiment is shared by the entire Malay population of Kedah.

I will give you the bare outline of the whole proceeding which took place between the Special Representative of the British Government and myself.

I was presented with a verbal ultimatum with a time limit and in the event of my refusing to sign the New Agreement, which I call the Instrument of Surrender, a successor, who would sign it, would be appointed Sultan. Members of the State Council had also to sign an undertaking to advise me to sign it. I was also told that the matter was personal and confidential and was not allowed to tell my people what had taken place.

I intend to go to England to submit personally my petition to the Secretary of State for the Colonies, but I begin to suspect that the British Military Administration may play a delaying action by making excuses about shipping difficulty etc. so that I may not arrive in England in time.

After exposing us for nearly four years to untold cruelties and sufferings, to starvation, disease and violence is this then the way to redeem broken pledges?

Is it dignified on the part of the British Government to have recourse to threat and intimidation in order that its action may have a legal appearance?

This is indeed making a mockery of the United Nations Charter. I do not doubt that this is the spirit that has produced a tug of war in the United Nations Assembly.

Besides I am unable to understand the wide divergence between the Statement made by Viscount Addison in the House of Lords "that nothing could be further from the truth than the suggestion that the British were telling the Malayan Sultans that they had to lump it or take it etc," and the action taken here.

I hope there is still time to save the fair name of Great Britain from being soiled and the Malays from being submerged.

I leave to your discretion to make use of this letter in any way which you think will serve the cause of the Malays.

I wish you the best of health,

Yours sincerely,

Badlishah.

===== Page 27 =====
Mr. Boardillon

You will want to have this shorthand note of Sir Cecil Clementi's statement made at the meeting of the Malayans on Friday last.

R. Baker

1st March, 1946.

===== Page 28 =====
1st March, 1946.

Dear Sir Cecil,

In Mr. Hall's absence from the Office owing to indisposition, I write to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 27th February, enclosing a shorthand note of the statement made by you at the Colonial Office conference held on the 26th February.

When Mr. Hall returns to the Office, I will place your letter before him.

Yours sincerely,

Private Secretary.

Sir Cecil Clementi, GCMG.

===== Page 29 =====
28th February, 1946.

Dear Sir Laurence Guillemard,

I am writing on Mr. Hall's behalf to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of 27th February, and to express his great regret that you were unable to be present at the meeting of Malayans yesterday.

As far as is known at present, there will be no further meeting.

Yours sincerely,

E.K. BAKER.

Private Secretary.

Sir Laurence Guillemard, GCMG., KCB.

===== Page 30 =====
Mr Bondillon
BROOKS'S, 27-2-46
ST. JAMES'S STREET, S.W.1.
TEL. REGENT 3745.

Dear Sir,

I was very sorry not to be present yesterday, but the cool weather defeated me.

I have had a very bad cold, and my doctor said I must be careful.

Please make my apologies to the SOTS.

If the conference is to meet again, please let me know.

Sincerely,

L. Gillemark

===== Page 31 =====
27th February 1946

Dear Mr. Hall,

I do not know whether a short-hand note was made of my statement at the Colonial Office conference yesterday concerning Command Paper No. 6724; or, as I feel that you will wish to know exactly what I said, I have today dictated a statement as nearly as I can remember it in the words I then used. I enclose a typescript.

===== Page 32 =====
Of it; I ask that it may be placed with the memorandum enclosed in my letter to you dated 22nd February 1946. The two documents taken together set out both my objections to the plan in command paper No. 6724, and also the alternative plan which I recommend.

Yours sincerely,

[Signature]

===== Page 33 =====
A Malayan Union and a Union of British Borneo are, in my opinion, eminently desirable; for I am confident that they would conduce to the welfare, happiness, progress, and prosperity of the inhabitants of both regions.

But I am much afraid that the successful inauguration of such Unions will be impeded, rather than achieved, by the plan published in the White Paper recently laid before Parliament.

The main objections to that plan appear to be fourfold. In the first place, the proposal that there should be appointed a Governor-General to coordinate administration in British Malaya and in British Borneo is, I think, misconceived; because geography and history alike dictate that the development of these two regions towards eventual self-government must be widely divergent. Any effort, therefore, to bring both territories under one administration is foredoomed to failure and may even do harm. I shall revert to this point.

In the next place, the proposal to appoint a Governor of the Malayan Union with his capital at Kuala Lumpur implies outright annexation of the Malay States and would, therefore, be a violation of our basic treaties with the Malay Rulers. Moreover, it is proposed in the White Paper that the Governor of the Malayan Union should preside over Council meetings concerned with the Mohammedan religion. Such a proposal is bound to be odious to the Malay Rulers, each of whom is Caliph in his own state; it is sure to be detested by the Malay people, who are Muslims; and it cannot fail to have repercussions hostile to the British Raj in the Muslim world outside Malaya, notably in that part of British India which desires to be known as Pakistan.

Thirdly, the proposal to exclude Singapore from the rest of the Malay peninsula and to place it under a separate Governor would cut the heart out of the Malayan Union and murder the hope of it before its birth.

Fourthly, the proposal to institute a Malayan Union citizenship would certainly arouse racial conflicts in Malaya, similar to those which now distract Palestine. Furthermore, it is stated in the White Paper that British subjects in Penang, Province Wellesley and Malacca, "when they acquire Malayan Union citizenship, will not thereby lose British nationality." But, if so, British protected persons in the Malay States, when and [POSSIBLY MISSING].

===== Page 34 =====
If they acquire Malayan Union citizenship, they would become British subjects likewise and would cease to be the subjects of their respective Malay Rulers. This, of course, means that the sovereignty of the Malay Rulers over their subjects would be annulled and it would be a violation of our basic treaties with them.

Certain geographical considerations of the greatest importance must be carefully borne in mind, although they are not mentioned in the White Paper. The island of Borneo is one of the largest in the world; its area is estimated to be about 293,000 square miles. It is therefore 3½ times larger than the island which comprises England, Scotland, and Wales, and which itself is about the size of British Borneo. Dutch Borneo, with its 210,000 square miles, is, of course, the predominant partner; and it will be most deplorable if strained relations are allowed to grow up between British and Dutch Borneo in any way comparable to those which now exist between Northern and Southern Ireland.

I therefore urge very strongly that H.M. Government should at once negotiate with the Netherlands Government for the purpose of ensuring the fullest possible co-operation of British and Dutch authorities as joint Trustees for the eventual development of the whole island of Borneo towards the goal of self-government. The matters of common interest, which I have in mind, are, for example, maintenance of law and order, immigration, education, customs, trunk roads, railways, aviation, posts, telegraphs and telephones, currency, weights and measures, forest reserves, game sanctuaries, and so forth. The island of Labuan should, as soon as is convenient, be detached from the Straits Settlement and attached to British Borneo. Perhaps, at the outset, as an interim measure, the Governor of British Borneo should reside there; but I hope that very soon the Chartered Company's territory of British North Borneo may become a British Colonial possession. The state of Brunei should, as hitherto, be ruled by its Sultan with the help of a British Adviser; and the Governor of British Borneo should become its High Commissioner.

As regards Sarawak, the offer of Rajah Brooke to cede his realm to the British Crown should be studied at Kuching by a Royal Commission to ascertain whether it accords with the wishes of the people of Sarawak and with those of the Rajah's family. If, as I hope, this offer proves acceptable both in Sarawak and to the British Parliament, then Sarawak will become a British Colonial possession and should be administered by the Governor of British Borneo, but if not, then the Governor of British Borneo should be appointed High Commissioner for Sarawak; and he should be represented at Kuching, not by a British Adviser, but by a British Agent, who will act merely as liaison officer between the Rajah and the High Commissioner. In any case, our aim should be to bring about a federal union of the whole of British Borneo with Labuan.

===== Page 35 =====
In the Malay peninsula, geographically speaking, the problem is on a much smaller scale. The area of British Malaya is only 51,000 square miles, about as large as England; but, of course, the northern boundary of the Malay peninsula is really at the Isthmus of Kra. The territories of Setul and of Patani, south of that isthmus, although ruled by Siam, are inhabited by Malays. These territories must not be thought of as an integral part of the Siamese kingdom, but rather as a dependency of it for which the Siamese Government must be deemed to be Trustees in the same manner as we are Trustees for British Malaya. Therefore, I would strongly urge that, as soon as a Malayan Union has been inaugurated and functions successfully, H.M. Government should negotiate with Siam for the fullest possible co-operation in the development of the whole Malay peninsula towards eventual self-government. The area of the whole Malay peninsula is only some 70,000 square miles. It is, therefore, 13,000 square miles smaller than British Borneo; and, as British Malaya is only 51,000 square miles in extent, the proposal that it should have two Governors, one at Kuala Lumpur and one at Singapore, with a Governor-General superimposed upon them, is manifestly uneconomical, even if it were not objectionable on other grounds.

To sum up, therefore, my recommendation is that the Straits Settlements Bill, now before Parliament, should be limited in scope to the exclusion of Labuan from the rest of the Straits Settlements, with a view to its future attachment to British Borneo; and that Command Paper No. 6724 should be unreservedly withdrawn. An alternative plan must then be prepared and I have submitted one such which I ask may be carefully considered. The gist of it is that we should pick up the threads of administration in Malaya at the point where they were cut by the Japanese occupation, and that the Governor appointed to succeed Sir Shenton Thomas should at the outset occupy precisely the same position which he did. But here I must add a word of caution. Great suspicion has been engendered in Malaya both among the Malay Rulers and their subjects by the publication of Command Paper No. 6724 and by the recent mission of Sir Harold MacMichael. It is, I think, essential that the next Governor should be a man already known to the Malays and one in whom they will have confidence.

The officer whom I suggest is Sir Arthur Richards, now Governor of Nigeria. When first I knew him, sixteen years ago, he was British Adviser in Johore, and soon afterwards he was appointed to be the Chartered Company's Governor in British North Borneo. Since then he has served as Governor of Fiji, Jamaica and Nigeria. Therefore he has wide administrative experience. He was a Malayan Civil Servant and speaks the Malay language, but he has not been associated with recent events in Malaya or

===== Page 36 =====
With the scheme set out in the White Paper.

If, therefore, he returned to Malaya, he would not be regarded with suspicion, and he might be able to persuade the Malay Rulers to forego such measure of their sovereignty as would enable them to join willingly in a Malayan Union. His previous experience at Sandakan would also assist him in devolving the Governorship of British Borneo as a separate federation on some other officer hereafter to be appointed.

===== Page 37 =====
Dear Mr. Baker,

Your letter of 25 February reached me this morning here in Wickham, where I am staying until 2 March.

I regret that I was unable to come to the Colonial Office on 26 February as provisionally arranged, but I left London on 21 December. I knew nothing of any suggested interview on the 26th.

Before I left London, I received from Mr. Hall a letter asking me to come to see him on the 22nd; a joint reply was sent in reply on the 20th by express post regretting my inability to be present and offering to do anything I could after the 3rd branch. In that letter, I sent a memorandum which I hope was received.

If any interview is desired after the 3rd month, I will make it my business to be present.

Yours sincerely,

Brought Sheam

===== Page 38 =====
Basil St. Hotel
Baid St.

22, Mount Street,
Grosvenor Square,
Mayfair 1916.

Dear Mrs. Hall,

I am very sorry to hear that you are still suffering and unable to attend the meeting called for today. As I am very deaf, I have put what I have to say on paper in brief terms. I enclose my memorandum.

I have a letter from the Sutton of Kedah which I think it my duty to show you, so I have had the letter copied and enclose it.

If you think I can be of any use in regard to making queries, I am always at your service.

Frank Swettinham

===== Page 39 =====
1. Malays generally do not object to the Union, but they have the strongest objection to the methods employed to gain the signatures of the Rulers and others in acceptance of the new British policy.

2. There is strong objection to change in the status of Malay Rulers and the ceding of full jurisdiction to H.M. the King.

3. There is very strong objection to the proposed rules for "Malay citizenship" and the suggested qualification of five years' residence in Singapore, which is not understood.

4. There is very strong objection to the moment chosen for these changes, just after 3½ years of Japanese occupation and trials, from which the Protecting Power was unable to defend Malaya.

===== Page 40 =====
The questions at issue are of such importance—not only to Malaya but indirectly to British interests in the Far East—that they cannot be dealt with wisely until after the fullest enquiry and consideration.

I believe the objections as stated represent truly, in the fewest words, the general Malay feeling in regard to the British Government's new proposals. No sufficient justification for such radical changes has been advanced, and they should not be enforced against an unwilling people who for seventy years have proved to be our firm friends.

Why expose our highly-valued position in Malaya to possible trouble, and with what object?

Sir George Maxwell has criticised the White Paper in detail, and I agree generally with what he has written. Whoever drew up the Paper can have but little knowledge of Malaya and its people and he ignores Treaty and other obligations of the British Government to the independent Malay Rulers and their subjects.

The proposal to have three Governors instead of one is extravagant and would almost certainly lead to endless delays and differences.

If I may make a suggestion it is that the application of the new policy—for which no real urgency can be

===== Page 41 =====
Advanced - should be postponed for a term of years, during which the fullest open enquiries should be made of all concerned and due consideration given to the position as so disclosed.

Franske Svarttanhans

22.2.46.

===== Page 42 =====
ISTANA,
AMPAK BUKIT,
Alorsta,
Kedah.

Dear Sir Frank Swettenham,

Though I have not the pleasure of knowing you personally, yet after reading your article fighting for the cause of the Malays reproduced in the local papers, I hasten to express my gratitude to you in the knowledge that you have not forgotten us, and believe me such sentiment is shared by the entire Malay population of Kedah.

I will give you the bare outline of the whole proceeding which took place between the Special Representative of the British Government and myself.

I was presented with a verbal ultimatum with a time limit and in the event of my refusing to sign the new agreement, which I call the Instrument of Surrender, a successor, who would sign it, would be appointed Sultan. Members of the State Council were also compelled to sign an undertaking to advise me to sign it.

I was told that the matter was personal and confidential and was not allowed to tell my people what had taken place.

I intend to go to England to submit personally my petition to the Secretary of State for the Colonies, but I begin to suspect that the British Military administration may play a delaying action by making excuses about shipping difficulty etc. so that I may not arrive in England in time.

After exposing us for nearly four years to untold cruelties and sufferings, to starvation, diseases and violence, is this then the way to redeem broken pledges?

Is it dignified on the part of the British Government to have recourse to threat and intimidation in order that its action may have a legal appearance?

This is indeed making a mockery of the United Nations Charter.

I do not doubt that this is the spirit that has produced the tug-of-war in the United Nations Assembly.

Besides I am unable to understand the wide divergence between the statement made by Viscount Addison in the House of Lords "that nothing could be further from the truth than the suggestion that the

===== Page 43 =====
British were telling the Malayan Sultans that they had to lump it or take it, etc., and the action taken here.

I hope there is still time to save the fair name of Great Britain from being soiled, and the Malays from being submerged.

I leave to your discretion to make use of this letter in any way which you think will serve the cause of the Malays.

I wish you the best of health,

Yours sincerely,

(Sgd.)

===== Page 44 =====
Feb. 19, 1916

Holmer Court,
Holmer Green,
High Wycombe,
Holmer Green 17, Bucks.

Dear Mr. Shatt,

At last I have received the typescript of a letter, a memorandum about Malayan affairs, to which I referred in my letter to you of Feb. 19.

I am very sorry to hear today by telephone from the Colonial Office that you are indisposed, but I much look forward to meeting you today.

===== Page 45 =====
On now arrived at 3:10 p.m. on Tuesday 26th

Yours sincerely

[Signature]

===== Page 46 =====
Holmer Court,
Holmer Green,
High Wycombe.

22nd February, 1946.

Sir,

Being much afraid that the proposal for a "Malayan Union & Singapore" contained in Command Paper 6724 may impede rather than promote the object in view, I venture to submit for your consideration an alternative scheme that would obviate the three main objections put forward by the Malays, namely:

(1) The introduction of His Majesty's jurisdiction throughout Protected States.

(2) The alleged interference with the Mohammedan religion.

(3) The extension of Malayan citizenship to aliens.

My scheme has been fully discussed with retired officers of long experience of Malaya and accepted by them.

I have the honour to be, Sir,

Your obedient servant,

The Undersecretary of State,
Colonial Office,
Whitehall.

===== Page 47 =====
PLAN FOR ADMINISTRATIVE RECONSTRUCTION IN MALAYA AND IN BORNEO.

At the outset, as an interim measure, Sir Shenton Thomas who was carried off by the Japanese as a prisoner of war, should be succeeded by an officer with the same titles and responsibilities; that is to say he would be:

(a) Governor of the Straits Settlements, which includes Labuan, Christmas Islands, Cocos and Keeling Islands.

(b) High Commissioner for the Malay States both Federated and Unfederated and for the state of Brunei in Borneo.

(c) British Agent for the state of Sarawak.

(d) British Agent for the Chartered Company's territory known as British North Borneo.

This officer should be sent out by the Colonial Office with instructions to aim at refashioning the administration of Malaya and Borneo on the following lines:

MALAYA.

(1) Steps should be taken to maintain the present Straits Settlements unless and until there is constituted a Governor of British Borneo, when Labuan should be transferred to his jurisdiction. There should be as hitherto a Colonial Secretary at Singapore and Resident Councillors in Penang and in Malacca. There should also be Executive and Legislative Councils as in the past.

(2) The present titles of British Resident in Perak, Selangor, Pahang and Negri Sembilan and of General Adviser Johore should be changed to British Adviser. All British Advisers should, as heretofore, be responsible to the High Commissioner of the Malay States.

(3) In each of the Malay States authority should vest in the Ruler and his State Council, which should legislate on State and Muhammadan affairs. The position of each Ruler as Caliph or head of the Muhammadan religion within his State should remain undisturbed in accordance with former treaties.

(4) The aim should be to bring about as soon as possible a Federation of the nine Malay States to which, as soon as circumstances permit, should be added the Straits Settlements excluding Labuan.

NOTE:

It would be most unwise to omit Singapore from the Federation, because Singapore is the chief city and port of the Malay Peninsula; the main commercial centre for the Malay Peninsula; the point at which communications along its east and west coasts converge.

(5) The Federation should be allowed to form itself naturally and gradually as the result of the common interests between all its members. Among Federal departments there will be from the beginning a Federal Secretariat, a Federal Currency Board, a Federal Railway Board, a Federal Postal Union, a Federal Secretariat for Chinese Affairs, a Federal Labour Board, a Federal Commissioner of Police, a Federal Court of Appeal, Federal Directors for the Health Services & Public Works & Irrigation, and finally a Malayan Establishment Officer. The cost of many of these offices is already provided for by the various Governments concerned.

The Federal Secretary for the nine Malay States should be an officer with no executive powers but solely responsible for effecting liaison between the High Commissioner and the British Advisers.

===== Page 48 =====
In view of the urgency of reconstruction, the need for a free flow of food supplies, and other essential commodities, there should be from the beginning a Customs Union.

NOTE:
The entropot trade of Singapore could be safeguarded by an area of deep sea wharves and bonded warehouses.

(7) There should be a Council of Rulers for the nine States under the Presidency of the High Commissioner with the Federal Secretary as its secretary, each Ruler to be accompanied by his British Advisor.

The agenda for this Council should be carefully prepared well ahead of each meeting, so that each Ruler would be familiar with the matters to be discussed. The language used should be Malay with the necessary interpretation. This Council of Rulers would follow the lines of past Durbars.

When the Straits Settlements join the Federation to constitute a Malayan Union, Singapore would be represented by the Colonial Secretary and Penang and Malacca by their respective Resident Councillors.

(8) There should be a Federal Council for the nine States on the lines of the former Federal Council but amplified to include representatives of States now newly federated and ultimately of the Straits Settlements. As in the past the High Commissioner would preside and the language would be English.

BORNEO.

(9) The ultimate aim should be to constitute a Union of British Borneo on such lines that in years to come it should coalesce with Dutch Borneo as a self-governing State.

It is possible that even now it might be feasible for His Majesty's Government to negotiate with the Netherlands Government to secure a measure of uniformity and cooperation in the development of their respective spheres in this large and backward island. Communications, posts and telegraphs, law and order, customs, immigration and aviation are obvious examples of the need for cooperation.

(10) When the time comes to reorganize the administrative machinery of the British territories in Borneo, there should be appointed a Governor for the whole area excepting the State of Brunei, of which he would be High Commissioner.

(11) The Chartered Company's territory in British North Borneo should be acquired by H.M. Government and become colonial territory.

(12) As regards the proposal of the Rajah of Sarawak to cede his territory to the Crown the best procedure would be to appoint a Royal Commission with a Judge as chairman, and two other members, namely a retired member of the Indian Civil Service or of the Colonial Administrative Service who has not served in Malaya, and a retired member of the Malayan Civil Service. This commission should visit Sarawak and be met there by Rajah Brooke, the Tuan Muda and Mr. Anthony Brooke. The Commission should be empowered to make such local investigations as appear to be desirable and should report if the cession of Sarawak by the Rajah to the Crown is the desire of its inhabitants and for their advantage.

If the cession is made, Sarawak would become a British colonial possession and be placed under the Governor of British Borneo.

If the cession is not made, the Governor of British Borneo should be High Commissioner for Sarawak instead of Agent.

===== Page 49 =====
CITIZENSHIP IN MALAYA AND BORNEO

(13) It is premature at present to endeavour to constitute a Pan-Malayan citizenship.

In the Straits Settlements, the procedure for naturalising aliens and for recognising British subjects needs no alteration.

In each Malay State, the permanently resident inhabitants should be the subjects of their respective Rulers; an alien desiring to become a subject in any given Malay State should be required to give proof of continuous residence in such State for at least ten years and of his intention to make such State his permanent home.

Admission to citizenship should be a privilege and not a right. A child born in any Malay State of alien parentage should not be entitled to be a citizen of such State unless his father also was born in Malaya or on British territory or has been admitted to Malayan citizenship. The same rule should apply in British Borneo. All citizens of a Malay State should take the oath of allegiance to the Ruler. Their status would thus be that of British Protected Persons.

===== Page 50 =====
22nd February, 1946.

Dear Sir Andrew,

Mr. Hall is unfortunately away today with a slight chill and therefore the meeting arranged for 3 p.m. this afternoon is not to be held.

We are, however, trying to arrange for a similar meeting at 3 p.m. on Tuesday next, February 26th, and should be very glad if you could come.

Yours sincerely,

(Sgd.) E.K. Baker

Private Secretary.

Sir Andrew Caldecott, GCMG., CBN.

===== Page 51 =====
22nd February 1946

Dear Sir Laurence,

Mr. Hall is unfortunately away today with a slight chill and therefore the meeting arranged for 5 p.m. this afternoon is not to be held.

We are, however, trying to arrange for a similar meeting at 3 p.m. on Tuesday next, February 26th, and should be very glad if you could come.

Yours sincerely,

(Sgd.) E.K. Baker
Private Secretary.

Sir Laurence Guillemard, GCMG, KCB.

===== Page 52 =====
Rodsall Manor
Shackleford
BROOKS'S, Godalming
ST. JAMES STREET, S.W.1.
TEL. REGENT 3745.

Dear Mr. Hall,

I am sorry to say I cannot attend the meeting on Friday.
If there is another later on I hope you will let me know.

Go sincerely,
L. J. Guillemand

===== Page 53 =====
22nd February 1946.

Dear Sir Frank,

This is just to confirm our telephone conversation of today and to let you know that the meeting on Malayan Union will now be held at 3 p.m. next Tuesday, the 26th February.

Yours sincerely,

(Sgd.) E.K. Baker

Private Secretary.

Sir Frank Swettenham, GCMG., CH.

===== Page 54 =====
SECURITY COUNCIL AND MALAYA.

(Discussed with Mr. Bennett, who agrees with the following minute).

Mr. Paskin.

The attached letter from Lord Marchwood to the Secretary of State encloses a copy of a letter which Sir George Maxwell has now sent to the "Times". Lord Marchwood apparently received this letter indirectly through Captain Gammans, since he also encloses a letter from Sir George to the latter. Incidentally, Captain Gammans has also sent the Secretary of State a copy of the correspondence direct.

2. Both in the letter to the "Times" and in the letter to Captain Gammans, Sir George Maxwell refers to the Security Council of the United Nations Organisation. The relevant passage from the letter to the "Times" reads as follows:

"The House of Commons will discuss the White Paper proposal in the course of the next two or three weeks, and may not have realised that the final decision (my underlining) will not be with it but with the Security Council of the Nations".

3. There are two relevant passages in the letter to Captain Gammans. The first is as follows:

"I have not the slightest doubt that many of the delegates to the Security Council of the Nations are studying the White Paper, and following all the Parliamentary debates and newspaper correspondence, with the keenest interest, and that they are waiting in grim silence until the British Government has hopelessly entangled itself in the meshes of a net of its own making, and that they will choose the moment for their pounce upon their victim".

The second passage is as follows:

"Unless Mr. Hall will have the courage to say that he would like to have more time for thought and discussions, the Bill will inevitably pass its second reading. After that the Nation will have to wait for the fateful hour when the Security Council will strike".

4. I understand that Sir George Maxwell met Sir George Gater and yourself in the Office about lunch time yesterday, and spoke to you on the same lines. You have since instructed me to prepare a Note setting out the facts regarding the possibility of intervention by the Security Council in Malaya.

5. Article 34 of the United Nations Charter reads as follows:

"The Security Council may investigate any dispute, or any situation which might lead to international friction or give rise to a dispute, in order to determine whether the

===== Page 55 =====
Continuance of the dispute or situation is likely to endanger the maintenance of international peace and security.

The first two paragraphs of Article 35 read as follows:

1. Any member of the United Nations may bring any dispute or any situation of the nature referred to in Article 34 to the attention of the Security Council or of the General Assembly.

2. A State which is not a member of the United Nations may bring to the attention of the Security Council or of the General Assembly any dispute to which it is a party, if it accepts in advance, for the purposes of the dispute, the obligations of Pacific settlement provided in the present Charter.

6. It seems clear from these Articles that the Malay States could not bring the matter before the Security Council on their own behalf, since in international law they are not separate entities but are merely parts of the British Empire. Still, of course, they are not separate members of the United Nations Organisation. In these circumstances, they cannot by any stretch of the imagination be included either in paragraph 1 or in paragraph 2 of Article 35 quoted above. It is possible that Sir George Maxwell is under a delusion on this point, and is misled by the fact that the Malay States are (or were until the signing of the MacMichael treaties) sovereign, independent States from the point of view of H.M.G.'s domestic relations. Sir George may not be aware that this "independence" has no existence in international law, which is of course the only thing that matters to the United Nations.

7. The only possibility, then, is that a member of the United Nations could bring the matter to the attention of the Security Council (under Article 35), on the grounds that it is "a situation which might lead to international friction or give rise to a dispute". It might be held that even this is out of the question, on the grounds that whatever happens in the Malay States (which have no separate entity in international law) is purely the domestic concern of H.M.G. and is therefore not within the purview of an international organisation. I do not think, however, that the question can be dismissed quite as lightly as this. Article 34 is drafted in wide terms. It does not restrict itself to disputes between Nations or States. On the contrary, it covers "any situation which might lead to international friction or give rise to a dispute", and it is, I think, conceivable that events in Malaya, if they took a very bad turn, might threaten to lead to international friction. Thus if the Malays, in protest at the policy of H.M.G., resorted to widespread violence and began murdering or maltreating Chinese in Malaya on a considerable scale, the Chungking Government, which would regard

===== Page 56 =====
The Chinese in question, as Chinese nationals under jus sanguinis, might feel itself bound, or profess to feel itself bound, to intervene on their behalf. The situation might in this way be raised to the international plane and might fall within the provisions of Article 34.

We cannot, therefore, altogether rule out the possibility of the Security Council interesting itself in Malaya. The possibility seems, however, to be a fairly remote one, and it appears that Sir George Maxwell's statement that "the final decision will be with the Security Council" is quite out of line with the facts. In any case, the final decision cannot rest with the Council, since the United Kingdom could in the last resort exercise its power of veto.

Still more fanciful, I think, is Sir George's picture of the Security Council watching the Malayan situation with savage delight and waiting to pounce on its victim.

A. T. Bardillan.
23.2.46.

P.S. I have taken a copy of Lord Marchwood's third enclosure (letter from Sultan of Kedah to Sir R. Winstedt) for the appropriate file.

A. T. B. 23/2.

The idea of the Security Council witnessing in this matter is fantastic; the fact that Sir G. Marchwell is writing a testimony in these terms is an indication of the irresponsible lengths to reach. He is prepared to go into forming opposition to the White Paper policy.

J. P. O. 23/2.

===== Page 57 =====
Sir G. Gater.

If the meeting provisionally fixed for tomorrow with Sir George Maxwell and others interested in the recent White Paper should materialize, he may well raise some of the points taken in this letter of his to the "Times," which, so far as I know, has not yet published it. Unless the plan for tomorrow's meeting is to be changed, Mr. Creech Jones should therefore see these papers within the next twenty-four hours.

Mr. Bourdillon's minute is the result of discussion with the International Relations Department, and paragraph 7 of it is to me a sound summary of both the possibilities and the probabilities. Either the Chinese or the Russians, if their international relations with H.M.G. were at the time such that they were seeking issues of which to make trouble with us, might easily turn to this one if events in Malaya took a turn, as a result of the enforcement of the White Paper policy, which looked anything like the beginnings of another Indonesia. But while that possibility cannot be entirely dismissed, I agree that any such attempt at intervention could readily be resisted on the ground that events in the Malay States are essentially the domestic concern of H.M.G. and could not properly receive the attention of the Security Council unless, as is most improbable, they seem likely to provoke a situation which might lead to international friction or give rise to dispute. The position here is, and would be in several essentials, quite different from any of those brought up before the Security Council at its recent meeting in London.

Mr. Creech Jones,

You should read these papers before tomorrow's meeting with the Malaysian experts. Sir George Maxwell's letter is very recent, and I am very surprised that he stumbled so gratuitously upon interaction by members of the Security Council. It is a most unsurprising proceeding on his part. Just on the passage for a few minutes last week when he mentioned the possibility.

===== Page 58 =====
of international intervention in Malaysia, but I did not take him very seriously and certainly did not dream that he would make such a suggestion in a letter to the Prince.

25.2

I have not commented on the V.N.O aspect of the matter as this is particular ground for you.

27/2

===== Page 59 =====
FROM
LORD MARCHWOOD, K.C.V.O.

26 OLD QUEEN STREET, S.W.1.
WHITEHALL 8181.

PERSONAL

21st February, 1946.

My dear Hall,

I send you copy of a letter from Sir George Maxwell which he has sent to the Editor of the Times together with his accompanying letter which speaks for itself, also copy of a letter sent to Sir Richard Winstedt by the Sultan of Kedah and cable I have received from Penang today.

Yours sincerely,

Ewan Marchwood

The Rt. Hon. G.H. Hall, M.P.,
Colonial Office,
Downing Street,
S.W.1.

===== Page 60 =====
Chindles.
High Salvington.
Worthing.
18th February, 1946.

From
Sir George Maxwell, B.N.E., C.M.G.
(Formerly Chief Secretary to Government,
Federated Malay States.)

To
The Editor of The Times.

Sir,
Malayan Union.

Neither in Parliament nor in the press has discussion on the White Paper touched on two points, of which the first is political and the second is religious. On the political point, paragraph 3, in two consecutive sentences, declares that "under the old situation (I would observe that "the present situation" is more accurate) His Majesty has no jurisdiction in any of the Malay States", and that "the present policy, however, requires that His Majesty should have jurisdiction". This may not be usurpation, but there is room for reasonable doubt. The fact that there has been a treaty has no bearing on the question: many nots of usurpation have been accompanied by treaties. In the present instance, Mr George Hall admitted in the House of Commons on the 18th instant that the Sultans of Perak and of Kedah had made official representations to him concerning the manner in which their signatures had been obtained. The Delegates to the Security Council of the United Nations have shown such interest in British policy in other spheres that some Delegate may well ask for some clarification of British policy in Malaya. Before Parliament commits itself to an irrevocable decision, it would be well to consider the problem from its international aspect.

On the religious point, the position is that, under Islamic Law, each Sultan is the supreme authority on all things spiritual in his State. The White Paper abolishes this status. Even in his own State, each Sultan will only preside over an "Advisory Council" on religious affairs, and in the Malayan Union each of Their "highnesses" will only be a member of a "Central Advisory Council", of which the Governor will be chairman. Every one who has lived in a Muhammadan State will realize what this will mean to the Malay people. The Arab League, which is interested in the affairs of all Muhammadan States, may well take the view that the proposal is not in accordance with the principles of Islamic Law.

===== Page 61 =====
The House of Commons will discuss the White Paper proposals in the course of the next two or three weeks, and may not have realized that the final decision will not be with it but with the Security Council of the Nations.

yours faithfully

===== Page 62 =====
My dear Gammans,

Here is a carbon copy of a letter, which goes to The Times today. As you are in fairly close touch with Mr Mall, perhaps you may like to find an opportunity of showing it to him, and, if you do so, you can also show him this letter. I feel sure that he and Mr Creech Jones must have been gravely concerned by the recent news of the reaction in Malaya to the White Paper. I am equally sure that many members of the Labour Party, who are well known for their life-long study of colonial problems, must feel troubled, and that the rank and file of the Labour Party, who have not any personal knowledge of Malaya, must feel that it is not in accordance with the principles of democracy. What has happened has been that Mr Mall and Mr Creech Jones have pinned their faith upon the judgment of Sir Edward Gent. Gent and I have been intimate friends for many years. His personal knowledge of Malaya is limited to a visit of a few weeks many years ago with Sir Samuel Wilson. It is reasonable to suppose that Gent, when he brought out the White Paper, acted with the confident belief that the proposals would be welcomed in Malaya. If that is so, his judgment was sadly at fault.

In spite of all this, the Colonial Office has decided to "run amuck" in typical Malay style, regardless of the unpleasant end of the person who sets out on that form of suicide. I have not the slightest doubt that many of the Delegates to the Security Council of the Nations are studying the White Paper, and following all the parliamentary debates and newspaper correspondence, with the keenest interest, and that they are waiting in grim silence until the British Government has hopelessly entangled itself in the meshes of a net of its own making, and that they will choose the moment for their pounce upon their victim.

What I should like you to impress upon Mr Mall is that there is still time for reconsideration before he makes a decision which is fraught with disaster not only to Malaya but to the whole Colonial Empire. It is still possible for him to inform the House that, in view of certain information, he has decided to ask the House to allow him to defer the reading until he has had time for further consultations with Their Highnesses the Rulers and with the people of Malaya. I plead most earnestly that there would be no "loss of face", and that the commonsense of it would appeal to all Parties in the House, and that the general relief might well find expression in a general cheer for his frankness and courage.

In order to make the position perfectly clear to the House and to the people of Malaya, Mr Mall might perhaps be inclined to act on the lines suggested in paragraph 19 of my

===== Page 63 =====
Article - "Malayan Union: Amalgamation or Federation?" - namely, that the intention is that we resume duty in the federated and unfederated States, as they were, and in the different Settlements of the Colony as it was, and to discuss with the Rulers and the people the possibilities of an administration which would be acceptable to them and more conducive to the welfare of Malaya as a whole. The instantaneous relief to everyone in Malaya can hardly be expressed in words.

The White Paper was published last month. No one in Malaya or in this country yet understands the nature of the tremendous changes to be effected. Unless Mr. Mall has the courage to say that he would like to have more time for thought and discussions, the Bill will inevitably pass its second reading. After that, the nation will have to wait for the fateful hour when the Security Council will strike.

Yours sincerely,

GEORGE MAXWELL

===== Page 64 =====
Istana Anak Bukit,
Alor Setar,
Kedah.

Dear Sir Richard Winstedt,

Though I have not the pleasure of knowing you personally, yet after reading your article fighting for the cause of the Malays reproduced in the local newspapers I hasten to express my gratitude to you in the knowledge that you have not forgotten us, and believe me such sentiment is shared by the entire Malay population of Kedah.

I will give you the bare outline of the whole proceeding which took place between the Special Representative of the British Government and myself.

I was presented with a verbal ultimatum with a time limit and in the event of my refusing to sign the new agreement, which I call the Instrument of Surrender, a successor, who would sign it, would be appointed Sultan. Members of the State Council were compelled to sign an undertaking that they would advise me to sign it. I was also told that this matter was personal and confidential and was not allowed to tell my people what had taken place.

I intend to go to England to submit personally my petition to the Secretary of State for the Colonies, but I begin to suspect that the British Military Administration may play a delaying action by making excuses about shipping difficulty etc., so that I may not reach England in time.

After exposing us for nearly four years to untold cruelties and sufferings, to starvation, diseases and violence is this then the way to redeem broken pledges? Is it dignified on the part of the British Government to have recourse to threat and intimidation in order that its action may have a legal appearance?

This is indeed making a mockery of the United Nations Charter. I do not doubt that this is the spirit that has produced a tug of war in the United Nations Assembly. Besides I am unable to understand the wide divergence between the statement made by Viscount Addison in the House of Lords that nothing could be further from the truth than the suggestion that the British were telling the Malayan Sultans that they had to lump it or take it etc., and the action taken here.

I hope there is still time to save the fair name of Great Britain from being soiled and the Malays from being submerged.

I leave to your discretion to make use of this letter in any way which you think will serve the cause of the Malays.

I wish you the best of health,

Yours sincerely,
(signed) (Sultan) Badlishah

===== Page 65 =====
21st February, 1946.

Dear Captain Gammans,

I write on Mr. Hall's behalf to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of 19th February enclosing correspondence from Sir George Maxwell about the Malayan White Paper, which he was interested to read.

In confirmation of my telephone conversation this morning, Mr. Hall will be glad to see you at the Colonial Office at 3 p.m. tomorrow afternoon, 22nd February.

Yours sincerely,

E.K. BAKER.

Private Secretary.

Captain L.D. Gammans, MP.

===== Page 66 =====
Mr. Bowdill
to see
relax

Basil St. Hotel
Basil St.
Knightbridge S.W.3

22, Mount Street,
Grosvenor Square,
Mayfair 1916.

Dear Mr. Hall,

Your letter of the 18th has only just reached me because I am unable to live in my own flat.

I am deeply interested in the Government's new policy for Malaysia but I fear my acceptance of your kind invitation for Friday the 22nd inst. at 3 p.m. will not be of much use because the questions at issue appear to have been decided already. Because I am very deaf, I cannot join in a general discussion.

Unless I hear to the contrary I shall attend at the Colonial Office on Friday at 3 p.m.

Yours sincerely,

Frank Swettham

===== Page 67 =====
Dear Mr. Hall,

On view of the meeting on Friday, I venture to send you personally a typed copy of a very grave letter received by me this morning from Sultan N. Kedah.

Reflectant as one is to believe its content, no one who knows Malay Rulers at all will believe for a moment that the allegations are baseless, though there may have been some misunderstanding.

Yours sincerely,

The Rt. Hon'ble
G. Hall
Secretary of State.

===== Page 68 =====
COPY.

Istana Anak Bukit,
Alorstar,
Kedah.

Dear Sir Richard Winstedt,

Though I have not the pleasure of knowing you personally, yet after reading your article fighting for the cause of the Malays reproduced in the local newspapers I hasten to express my gratitude to you in the knowledge that you have not forgotten us, and believe me such sentiment is shared by the entire Malay population of Kedah.

I will give you the bare outline of the whole proceeding which took place between the Special Representative of the British Government and myself.

I was presented with a verbal ultimatum with a time limit and in the event of my refusing to sign the new agreement, which I call the Instrument of Surrender, a successor, who would sign it, would be appointed Sultan. Members of the State Council were compelled to sign an undertaking that they would advise me to sign it. I was also told that this matter was personal and confidential and was not allowed to tell my people what had taken place.

I intend to go to England to submit personally my petition to the Secretary of State for the Colonies, but I begin to suspect that the British Military Administration may play a delaying action by making excuses about shipping difficulty etc., so that I may not reach England in time.

After exposing us for nearly four years to untold cruelties and sufferings, to starvation, diseases and violence is this then the way to redeem broken pledges? Is it dignified on the part of the British Government to have recourse to threat and intimidation in order that its action may have a legal appearance?

This is indeed making a mockery of the United Nations Charter. I do not doubt that this is the spirit that has produced a tug of war in the United Nations Assembly. Besides I am unable to understand the wide divergence between the statement made by Viscount Addison in the House of Lords that nothing could be further from the truth than the suggestion that the British were telling the Malayan Sultans that they had to lump it or take it etc., and the action taken here.

I hope there is still time to save the fair name of Great Britain from being soiled and the Malays from being submerged.

I leave to your discretion to make use of this letter in any way which you think will serve the cause of the Malays.

I wish you the best of health,

Yours sincerely,

(Sultan) Badli Shah.

===== Page 69 =====
The Man In The Street

Bursting!

Hurrah! 3 Cheers for Great Britain! Long live the King!
We are so happy that we feel like bursting.

Opium smoking totally prohibited in all British Colonies!
And on Double Tenth Day too!
There should be another procession to the Padang for a mighty bonfire of opium and opium pipes. The greatest curse of the Chinese nation wiped out in a stroke!

Yet another piece of great news! The Malayan Union and Citizenship! Past Privileges to go! Boy, Oh Boy! Good old Britain! Without even a Dr. Soekarno! Send those French and Dutch guys to Mr. Attlee for a few easy lessons on government and diplomacy.

We certainly hope that Sir Harold MacMichael’s visit to Malaya will mean the end of all those Sultans and their good-for-nothing parasitic “royal” families. The colossal amount of money wasted on these germs should be paid to highly qualified and hardworking government officials.

Again three cheers for the most generous nation in the world, Great Britain!—“A Citizen of New Malaya.”

===== Page 70 =====
Escape the firing squad by taking poison in the cell just before the execution was due. Prison doctors worked hard to...

British Dockers To Resume Work

LONDON, Oct. 15—With few exceptions, London dockers have agreed to return to work on Oct. 18. The statement made to a meeting of strikers this morning added: "This is to enable the negotiation machinery to function and, at the same time, the men pledge themselves to attempt to get normal resumption of work in the docks nationally." — Reuters.

===== Page 71 =====
20th Dec. 1946

Mr. Hall

I have just received your letter inviting me to come to the Colonial Office at 3 pm on Friday, but greatly regret that engagements on that day and the next prevent my acceptance.

Mr. Q's policy having been declared, I fear that I have no views of practical application to express regarding it, except one which I have already notified to Sent and which he passed on in my presence to William. This is that a Malay Ruler (exercising what in several States is recognized as Caliphate authority) having enacted a Muhammedan measure must not be required (as in the White Paper) to submit it for lay and 'infidel' assent (in that of the Governor). Such a requirement must wound Islamic opinion both within the States and in the entire Muslim world, e.g., Egypt, India. It is most unfortunate that this provision was misused in the White Paper, as it could

===== Page 72 =====
Provided with equal efficacy that a Muhammedan measure before introduction is a Rule into his Advisory Council should be 'vetted' by the Attorney-General to make sure that it does not encroach upon or conflict with ordinary criminal general law and concurred in by the Governor's Advisory Council of Rules in order to prevent the emergence of 'schismatic' legislation in any one State — although the matriarchal State of Negri Sembilan and matriarchal District of Nanning (in Malacca) must be allowed to remain, as new, matriarchal — though this is contrary to Muhammedan law.

The acceptability of the Policy by Malays must largely depend upon its implementation and it is a thousand pities that the Military Censorship allowed publication in the Straits Times of 17 Oct. 45 of the enclosed cutting, which perhaps has not yet been brought to your notice. Nothing more mischievous or prejudicial to Malay acceptance of the new order could have been continued. First must never be neglected that a Malay Ruler under British Protection has been almost irreducibly democratic.

Yours sincerely

A. Caldeiro

===== Page 73 =====
Dear Mr Hall,

I shall be very pleased to attend at the Colonial Office at 3 p.m. this Friday and should like to convey to you a sense of my appreciation at being invited to join in these discussions.

Yours sincerely,

[Signature]

The Rt. Honourable G.H. Hall,
Colonial Office,
Downing Street,
S.W.1.

===== Page 74 =====
Mr Bannister 72 to see Ross Court Putney Health 5.0.15 19.2.46.

Dear Mr Hall,

It is very kind of you to invite me to a discussion on the Malayan Union, and I shall be happy to attend.

Yours sincerely,

Richard Winstedt

The Rt. Hon'ble G. H. Hall Secretary of State

===== Page 75 =====
Feb. 19, 186[UNCLEAR]

Dear Wattall,

Thank you for your letter dated Feb. 18.

I am informed and minded, but I have closely followed the recent debate on discussion concerning affairs in Malaya and Borneo, and I accepted your invitation to confer with you at the local office on these subjects at 3:15 p.m. on Sunday week.

I have recently discussed Cm. 6724 with several retired officers of the Malayan Civil Service, who served under Queen or Admiral and Resident. As the [TEXT CUT OFF]

===== Page 76 =====
Result of these talks, I have prepared a memorandum, which I intended to send to you, which would now endure, although it is still in the type-written form.

I hope it arrives before next Friday.

Yours friendly,

The 23rd Hon. G. H. Hall
Secretary of Haiti to the Colonies
Dowrie Street

===== Page 77 =====
19th February, 1946.

Dear Mr. Stall,

I thank you for your letter of yesterday, and I have great pleasure in accepting your invitation to attend, on Friday, the 22nd instant at 3 p.m., at the Colonial Office, a meeting to see the succession on the White Paper on the Malayan Mission.

Yours sincerely,

George Chasuble

===== Page 78 =====
Feb. 19, 1946

Dear Mr. Stale,

Thank you for your letter of Feb. 18. I am extremely sorry, but on Friday next my wife and I are due at Parishon to pay a long-standing visit to old friends. We shall not be coming up to town.

We do not expect to return here for at least a week, as from Parishon we go on to pay other visits.

I shall, of course, be glad to give

===== Page 79 =====
In such help as lean in regard to Malaya. The reports in the Press have been very short; the chief cause of anxiety seems to be not what has been done, but the way in which it has been done.

I feel sure that if St. M. S. had not acted now, it would very soon have been forced to act by pressure from India China.

John S. Sinclair
Shenkin Thorne

===== Page 80 =====
19, Buckingham Palace Mansions, S.W.1.
Sloane 4463

19th February 1946

My dear Harley,

I have had a letter from Sir George Maxwell which he suggests I should pass to you. He, like myself, seems to be receiving a large number of telegrams these days from Malaya, which suggest that there is growing dissatisfaction with the White Paper, or rather with the haste with which it is being considered.

Yours sincerely,

Davis Gammans

Rt. Hon. G.H. Hall, M.P.
Colonial Office, Downing Street, S.W.1.

===== Page 81 =====
My dear Gammans,

Here is a carbon copy of a letter, which goes to The Times today. As you are in fairly close touch with Mr. Hall, perhaps you may like to find an opportunity of showing it to him, and, if you do so, you can also show him this letter. I feel sure that he and Mr. Creech Jones must have been gravely concerned by the recent news of the reaction in Malaya to the White Paper. I am equally sure that many members of the Labour Party, who are well known for their life-long study of colonial problems, must feel troubled, and that the rank and file of the Labour Party, who have not any personal knowledge of Malaya, must feel that it is not in accordance with the principles of democracy. What has happened has been that Mr. Hall and Mr. Creech Jones have pinned their faith upon the judgment of Sir Edward Gent. Gent and I have been intimate friends for many years. His personal knowledge of Malaya is limited to a visit of a few weeks many years ago with Sir Samuel Wilson. It is reasonable to suppose that Gent, when he brought out the White Paper, acted with the confident belief that the proposals would be welcomed in Malaya. If that is so, his judgment was sadly at fault.

In spite of all this, the Colonial Office has decided to "run amuck" in typical Malay style, regardless of the unpleasant end of the person who sets out on that form of suicide. I have not the slightest doubt that many of the Delegates to the Security Council of the Nations are studying the White Paper, and following all the parliamentary debates and newspaper correspondence, with the keenest interest, and that they are waiting in grim silence until the British Government has hopelessly entangled itself in the meshes of a net of its own making, and that they will choose the moment for their pounce upon their victim.

What I should like you to impress upon Mr. Hall is that there is still time for reconsideration before he makes a decision which is fraught with disaster not only to Malaya but to the whole Colonial Empire. It is still possible for him to inform the House that, in view of certain information, he has decided to ask the House to allow him to defer the reading until he has had time for further consultations with Their Highnesses the Rulers and with the people of Malaya. I plead most earnestly that there would be no "loss of face", and that the commonsense of it would appeal to all Parties in the House, and that the general relief might well find expression in a general cheer for his frankness and courage.

In order to make the position perfectly clear to the House and to the people of Malaya, Mr. Hall might perhaps be inclined to act on the lines suggested in paragraph 19 of my

===== Page 82 =====
Article - "Malayan Union: Amalgamation or Federation?" - namely, that the intention is that we resume duty in the federated and unfederated States, as they were, and in the different Settlements of the Colony as it was, and to discuss with the Rulers and the people the possibilities of an administration which would be acceptable to them and more conducive to the welfare of Malaya as a whole. The instantaneous relief to everyone in Malaya can hardly be expressed in words.

The White Paper was published last month. No one in Malaya or in this country yet understands the nature of the tremendous changes to be effected. Unless Mr. Hall will have the courage to say that he would like to have more time for thought and discussions, the Bill will inevitably pass its second reading. After that the nation will have to wait for the fateful hour when the Security Council will strike.

yours sincerely

George Masson

===== Page 83 =====
Chindles.
High Salvington.
Worthing.
18th February, 1946.

From
Sir George Maxwell, B.B.B., C.M.S.
(Formerly Chief Secretary to Government,
Federated Malay States.)

To
The Editor of The Times.

Sir,
Malayan Union.

Either in Parliament nor in the press has discussion on the White Paper touched on two points, of which the first is political and the second is religious. On the political point, paragraph 3, in two consecutive sentences, declares that "under the old situation (I would observe that 'the present situation' is more accurate) His Majesty has no jurisdiction in any of the Malay States", and that "the present policy, however, requires that His Majesty should have jurisdiction". This may not be usurpation, but there is room for reasonable doubt. The fact that there has been a treaty has no bearing on the question: many acts of usurpation have been accompanied by treaties. In the present instance, Mr George Mall admitted in the House of Commons on the 18th instant that the Sultans of Perak and of Redah had made official representations to him concerning the manner in which their signatures had been obtained. The Delegates to the Security Council of the United Nations have shown such interest in British policy in other spheres that some Delegate may well ask for some clarification of British policy in Malaya. Before Parliament commits itself to an irrevocable decision, it would be well to consider the problem from its international aspect.

On the religious point, the position is that, under Islamic Law, each Sultan is the supreme authority on all things spiritual in his State. The White Paper abolishes this status. Even in his own State, each Sultan will only preside over an "Advisory Council" on religious affairs, and in the Malayan Union each of Their Highnesses will only be a member of a "Central Advisory Council", of which the Governor will be chairman. Every one who has lived in a Muhammadan State will realize what this will mean to the Malay people. The Arab League, which is interested in the affairs of all Muhammadan States, may well take the view that the proposal is not in accordance with the principles of Islamic Law.

===== Page 84 =====
The House of Commons will discuss the White Paper proposals in the course of the next two or three weeks, and may not have realized that the final decision will not be with it but with the Security Council of the Nations.

you're faithfully

GEORGE MAXWELL.

===== Page 85 =====
Dear Mr. Hall,

I thank you for your letter of the 18 February for the kind words you use in referring to my work in Malaya.

It would have given me great pleasure to be present on Friday the 22nd. I regret very much having to ask you to excuse me as I shall be in Scotland on that day having an engagement there which it is impossible for me to postpone.

I should very much have appreciated the opportunity of expressing my views as regards the reforms in the constitution of the Malay States and the history of the Straits Settlements as I cannot at present. I venture to enclose a memorandum.

I return to London on the 3 March.

===== Page 86 =====
A mereafki, if there is anything I can do, I trust you will let me know.

Yours sincerely,

Ernst Shearn

===== Page 87 =====
Memorandum.

The proposed changes in the constitution of the Malay States and the history of the Straits Settlements as detailed in the White Paper (Bndl: 6724) have my unqualified support.

2. It appears to me that as a result of the Malayan Union we shall avoid a great many of the administrative anomalies which arise by reason of the existence of so many separate governments and administrations.

3. There was excessive duplication which was uneconomic and did not make for efficiency of administration. The making of legislative provisions of exactly similar nature and rules in identical words by the various councils in Malaya was another instance of the unsatisfactory nature of the system in force.

4. During my 8-9 years service on the Federal bench on the State Council of Selangor I experienced numerous examples of the condition of affairs to which I refer in paragraphs 2-3.

5. Reference to the debates on the Federal bench will show the arguments I advanced from time to time against the policy of decentralization as an end in itself. In view of my approach to that problem, this present policy of unification is one to which I can give entire adherence.

6. I contributed an article to a periodical called "British Malaya" in January of this year expressing certain of the views I hold in relation to the Malayan Union and giving reasons why it appears to me that the policy of H.M. Government was in the best interests of the country of Malaya.

===== Page 88 =====
7. The present proposal, as detailed in the White Paper, is not novel so far as I am concerned. While a prisoner was in Jamaica sometime in the year 1942, drafting a memorandum setting out certain suggested changes in the constitution of the territories of Malaya and North Borneo. In this memorandum, I elaborated the formation of a Malayan Union comprising the Malay States and the Straits Settlements in Malaya, which should eventually acquire nation status and until then be under the guidance of the Colonial Office.

8. I should have thought that those who sponsored and supported the federation of the four Malay States might have viewed the Malayan Union as an extension and a development of the ideas underlying the formation of the Federation.

9. The Malayan Union, of course, goes much further than any federation or confederation and is able to give recognition to the legitimate aspirations of races other than the Malays for political recognition.

10. It provides a safety valve in a time of unrest. If such an outlet were not forthcoming, disturbances even more serious than can be recalled in any way experienced might be anticipated.

11. The changes must, of course, command themselves to the business, Indian or other communities whose members have enjoyed no right to citizenship in the Malayan States unless they applied for or were granted naturalization as subjects of one or other of the Sultans.

12. It is the position of the Malays which gives rise to opposition. This seems to me to be based on one of the two following grounds:

===== Page 89 =====
(a) The method of obtaining the consent of the Rulers.
(b) The likelihood that the Malays will be outquoted by pushful immigrant classes.

13. As regards ground (a) after I have little information on what occurred between Sir Howard Macchard and the Sultans. The official version is that the new agreements were successfully concluded after consultations conducted with prejudices and goodwill. I see no reason why these should oppose the change in the constitution of the Malay States and can suggest that the official version should not be accepted as being correct. To me, it was a mistake that the reforms had to be introduced immediately after the military alter regime and that it would have been likely to have introduced temporarily the old system only to have completely reorganized it after it had been at work for some brief period.

14. As regards ground (b) the outquoting of the Malays is not an event that would be the likely consequence of the new policy. I am sure that the position of the Malays in the country and their legitimate claims were kept in mind by the governor and successive governors of the Malayan Union. I think those who oppose are the private result of giving the foreign and Indian communities the right to obtain Malayan land citizenship, which citizenship will be enjoyed by all persons born in Malaysia. I doubt if the number of applicants for Malayan land citizenship will be more than a fraction of those entitled to apply.

15. The opposition, so far as I can ascertain, is voiced largely by self-styled friends of the Malays in this country rather than from the Malays themselves.

16. It is not my experience that in the past the Malays have shown themselves to be politically conscious of such political ideas as they evidenced up to the time of the Japanese.

===== Page 90 =====
Occupation seems largely to have been mistaken into their minds by their friends rather than to have been spontaneous in their conception.

17. I am unaware what has been the result upon the Malays' political consciousness of the Japanese occupation. At least there was no Malay national movement upon which the Japanese could work as they appeared to have done in Java.

18. The Malays are not unsensitive to economic conditions and, like other races, may be expected to show signs of current times of protracted depression. Impoverishment may be expected to bring about political recriminations not only from the Malays but also from the Chinese and the Indians.

19. The political future of Malaysia, as of other countries, is irreversibly bound to economic conditions. Herein at the present time lies danger.

20. It would be tragic if this excellent scheme of constitutional changes were to be wrecked upon the rank of economic depression. Hungry people are potential political agitators.

21. The speedy recovery of Malaysia as a land of peace and prosperity is doubtless inevitable. To achieve this I am sure a number of steps have already been taken, but results appear to be extremely slow in achievement. I suggest that the ordinary steps of the ordinary channels are not sufficient and that there is at present every indication that matters of extreme urgency are being tackled in too leisurely or unwarranted a manner. I heartily hope that measures will be taken or some other action has been initiated already.

===== Page 91 =====
22. I venture to suggest that there are certainly three vital matters which require immediate and energetic handling.

(a) An adequate provision of rice for the people of Malaysia.

(b) The payment of an adequate price in rubles in relation to the cost of production of rubber crops.

(c) The financing of industry.

23. The payment of an adequate price for one of Malaysia's principal products is essential for the speedy recovery of the rubber industry, with a cost in bringing about the prosperity of the country as a whole. This mitigates against surreptitious practices.

24. Until the rubber industry has been rehabilitated, full prices should be paid for rubber produced in Malaysia as in other countries. Once the industry rotates and is in full production, the fixing of a maximum price in relation to the normal cost of production might be considered. Such a policy would not retard the restoration of the industry if not indicated anxiously on the part of consumers.

25. To regard the financing of industry, the commercial agricultural undertakings of Malaysia have experienced a catastrophic setback. Damage has been done to assets and has been lost. Capital is now required. The setting up of commissions of inquiry to examine claims and initiate compensation schemes does not provide a present remedy for an existing want. To bring about the speedy commercial recovery and the early prosperity of the people of Malaysia, immediate provision in the financing of industry is required. If this is left to individual enterprise and initiative, the recovery of the country will be longer retarded. Payments on account of compensation and loans on advantageous terms from Government funds in preparation are essential.

London, 19 II 46

Ernst Sheam

===== Page 92 =====
Some General Notes for the Secretary of State's Talk with Prominent Ex-Malayans at 3 p.m. on Friday, February 22.

Not all of those whom the Secretary of State will see on Friday are adverse critics of the Government's Malayan policy. To judge from the views they have hitherto expressed, the "unofficials" (Mr. Hake and Mr. Shearn) may be expected to favour the policy, and some of the "officials", such as Sir Andrew Caldecott and Sir Shenton Thomas, are likely, at the lowest estimate, to recognise its merits. From others, however, there is bound to be very strong criticism, and most of this criticism will be centred round one point — the position of the Malays and the Malay Rulers. It will be argued that we went into the Malay States with the sacred duty of protecting the Malays and preserving the independence of the Sultans, that this duty is enshrined in a treaty or treaties with each State, and that we are now abandoning our pledges, forsaking our sworn and trusted friends and allowing the Malays to be swamped by hordes of immigrant Chinese and Indians.

The protagonists of this attitude are Sir Frank Swettenham and Sir Richard Winstedt. Mr. Haynes may be expected to adopt a similar point of view, and it appears from his latest articles that Sir George Maxwell is likely to take the same line, though he has not been known in the past as a "fanatical pro-Malay". The attached notes on the individuals who will be present at the discussion attempt to describe the several points of view of these individuals and the way in which their arguments might be answered. The following paragraphs, however, contain some general suggestions for the Secretary of State's use (perhaps in his opening remarks?).

===== Page 93 =====
It will be seen that the suggestions concentrate on the main criticisms which I have noted above.

The Secretary of State might begin by rebutting the idea that the policy is a hasty and ill-considered measure, adopted without respect for local experience. He might point out that H.M.G. have given the matter their close study ever since the fall of Malaya, and that the White Paper is the result of years of careful consideration both by the Coalition Government and by the present Government.

The Secretary of State might go on to say that H.M.G. had first reviewed the past in order to discover what changes were necessary. They had reached the conclusion that past achievements in Malaya were deserving of the highest praise (here the Secretary of State might mention the outstanding services of many of those present at the discussion) and that the progress of the country under British protection had been little short of miraculous. Nevertheless, H.M.G. had concluded that there were certain barriers to political progress, and that these barriers must be removed if Malaya were ever to stand on its own feet.

This could lead on to a brief description of the policy and its fundamental aims - unity and common citizenship. The Secretary of State could here refute the charge that we are deserting the Malays by asking what alternative to the new policy can be conceived, in the interests of the Malays themselves. The only alternatives suggested are that we should return to the old system pure and simple, or that we should first return to the old system and then seek to persuade the Sultans to join some form of extended federation. This amounts to standing still. But if we stand still, events will not. The claims of Chinese and Indians, supported by the Chinese and Indian Governments, will become increasingly strong.

===== Page 94 =====
Strong and increasingly impossible to resist. The position whereby half the population of the country are denied all political rights will become increasingly untenable, and on the other hand the Malays will become increasingly dependent on the continuance of British protection. Such a position could not last. It would inevitably lead to an upheaval, and in the upheaval it would be the Malays who would go under.

The Secretary of State might then point to the necessity of using the present opportunity of bringing about the required changes. Once we allow the old system to re-establish itself, change would become far more difficult and far more painful, if not impossible. At this point he might add that the change is emphatically not designed to sacrifice the interests of the Malays, but on the contrary to serve their best interests by giving them the opportunity of standing on their own feet. He might show how it is proposed to safeguard the position of the Malays in various respects, and how the citizenship proposals in particular will prevent the Malays from being submerged, merely admitting to citizenship beside the Malays those members of other racial communities who have an irrefutable claim.

In short, the main point which the Secretary of State must bring out is that the worst service which we could do to the Malays would be to return to the previous system of artificial protection. In bringing out this point, and in dealing with the position of the Sultans, he might refute the argument, which has been made by Sir Richard Winstedt and others, that we foresook the Sultans at the time of the Japanese occupation and that we should now approach them in an attitude of penitence.

===== Page 95 =====
SIR SHENTON THOMAS, G.C.M.G., O.B.E.

Sir Shenton spent his whole career in the Colonial Service, which he entered in 1909. He had, however, no experience of Malaya until his appointment as Governor and Commander-in-Chief in 1934. He held this post for the long period of 8 years, and was still holding it when he was interned by the Japanese in 1942.

During internment, he wrote a memorandum on post-war Malaya, which he completed in Formosa in February 1944. To judge from this memorandum, his attitude towards the new Malayan policy may be expected to be on the whole favourable. His memorandum strongly attacks "decentralisation" as practiced in the Malay States in the last years before the war, on the grounds of cumbersomeness and inefficiency, particularly on the financial side. For the future he envisages a much closer form of political union, suggesting that Singapore and the Malay Peninsula should be under a single administrative head on the well-known "Colony and Protectorate" model. That is to say, there would be a single Governor of the whole area, whose functions in relation to the Straits Settlements would be the same as in the past, but whose functions in relation to the Malay States would involve a much greater degree of unification and direct control.

Sir Shenton does not go into details about the means by which his reforms could be achieved. His plan, however, for joining the Malay States into a single Protectorate instead of a collection of protected States, definitely implies the cession of jurisdiction to His Majesty by the Rulers and the application to the Peninsula of the Foreign Jurisdiction Act. As regards the Peninsula, therefore, I [POSSIBLY MISSING]

===== Page 96 =====
Do not think Sir Shenton is likely to find any important ground of disagreement with our policy or with the means for bringing it into effect.

As regards Singapore, the position is different. During his tenure of office in Malaya, Sir Shenton always spent the great majority of his time in Singapore, for which he had a marked preference. He only visited Kuala Lumpur for about six weeks each year, and the complaint was made that he neglected the Malay States and regarded them merely as the "Ulu Singapore" (backwoods of Singapore). Moreover, the tone of his memorandum is distinctly anti-Malay, though he has warm praise for the record of the Chinese during the war. All this tends to show that he would regard Singapore as the natural and indeed the inevitable centre in any new political grouping of the area, and would criticise the proposed separation of Singapore from the Union.

In reply to such criticism, it would only seem necessary to draw attention to the great commercial, racial and strategic differences between Singapore and the Peninsula, and to the resultant likelihood of unnecessary friction and ill-feeling being caused by the inclusion of Singapore in the first instance.

===== Page 97 =====
SIR ANDREW CALDECOTT, G.C.M.G., C.B.E.

Sir Andrew's last two appointments (Governor of Hong Kong, 1935-1937; Governor of Ceylon, 1937-1944) were outside Malaya, but until 1935 the whole of his active life was spent in the Malayan Service. In this service, he held a great variety of posts, including Acting British Resident, Negri Sembilan; Acting British Resident, Perak; and British Resident, Selangor. His last two appointments before being appointed to Hong Kong were the Chief Secretaryship in the Federated Malay States (1931-1933) and the Colonial Secretaryship in the Straits Settlements (1933-1935). In 1934, he was Acting Governor and High Commissioner.

Sir Andrew thus has a wide and profound knowledge of Malayan affairs. He enjoyed, and still enjoys, a high reputation amongst the various communities in the country. We have no memorandum from him on Malayan policy, but his views are well known to Sir Edward Gent. He feels strongly on the question of ultimate control in Mohammedan religious affairs and holds that the Governor should exercise no authority at all in these matters. I understand that he would like us to go even further in this direction than we have gone in the concessions made since the issue of the White Paper. On other points, he does not seem likely to be a severe critic of the new policy.

===== Page 98 =====
SIR RICHARD WINSTEDT, K.B.E., C.M.G.

Sir Richard, who is 67 years of age, entered the Malayan Service in 1902 and left it on retirement in 1935. He was Director of Education, Straits Settlements and Federated Malay States, from 1924 to 1931, and General Adviser in Johore from 1931 to 1935. Since his retirement he has been very active on various cultural bodies such as the School of Oriental and African Studies (of which he has been a member of the governing body since 1939) and the Royal Asiatic Society (of which he has been Director since 1940). During the war he played a leading part in directing and in himself undertaking B.B.C. broadcasts in Malay.

His interests have always lain predominantly on the linguistic and historical side, and he is acknowledged as the highest living authority on Malay language. He has written histories of Johore, Perak, Selangor and Negri Sembilan, as well as a history of Malaya itself (1935).

In an article published in the Straits Times on the 15th of November last, Sir Richard came out as a violent opponent of the new policy. He objects both to the policy itself and to the means of bringing it into effect. He regards the methods used as brutal and dictatorial, and says that the policy will mean the "extinction of the Malay in political life". He believes that the Malays will henceforward be swamped by the Chinese and Indians "whom they admitted on our advice for the planting of rubber and mining of tin", and upbraids us for having failed the Malayan people in war and having then "rushed them" in peace.

It is only fair to say that Sir Richard's very strong criticisms are based on the Secretary of State's brief outline of the policy on October the 10th last, and that he

===== Page 99 =====
May have found the answer to some of his points in the more detailed statement contained in the White Paper. But his opposition to the new policy is fundamental, and his whole attitude is conditioned by his intensely traditional, pro-Malay outlook.

The fundamental answer to Sir Richard is that his attitude is entirely unconstructive. He has no alternative to offer to the new policy, save a return to the previous system with its divided control and its lack of political progress. If we were to return to the previous system, the interest of the Malays, whom Sir Richard is so anxious to defend, would in the long run suffer most. The protection which they had from us in the past gave them no encouragement to stand on their own feet. They were protected in an artificial way from Chinese and Indian competition, and this was bound to lead to an impossible situation. On the one hand, this artificial protection could not have been maintained indefinitely, and on the other hand the Malays were becoming increasingly dependent upon it for their very survival. They are now, for the first time in history, being given the opportunity to unite and make a nation of themselves. At the same time they are not being suddenly exposed to all the dangers which Sir Richard fears. Their position is being carefully safeguarded, and the citizenship proposals, in particular, are designed to ensure that Malaya remains fundamentally a Malay country.

===== Page 100 =====
SIR LAURENCE GUILLEMARD, G.C.M.G., K.C.B.

Sir Laurence is 83 years old. He was Governor of the Straits Settlements and High Commissioner for the Malay States between 1919 and 1927, having spent the rest of his active life in the home Civil Service. He had entered the Treasury in 1888 and had been Chairman of the Board of Customs and Excise from 1909 to 1919.

He is not known to have expressed any views on the new policy.

===== Page 101 =====
Mr. Hake is a Director of Harrison's and Crosfields, a very important commercial firm with big rubber interests in Malaya. Before the invasion of Malaya by the Japanese, he was Managing Director of Harrison and Barker Limited, the local subsidiary of Harrison's and Crosfields, with Head Offices at Kuala Lumpur. He was a prominent figure amongst the unofficials in the F.M.S., and was for many years a member of the Federal Council.

Mr. Hake is a prominent member of the Association of British Malaya, and was Chairman of that body in 1945. He was one of the two members of the Association who were chosen in 1944 for confidential consultations with the Colonial Office on the outlines of the new Malayan policy. He played a very active part in these discussions, and through them has for some years been aware of the main features of the policy.

His views on Malaya are expressed in a short book which he recently published, entitled "The New Malaya and You." In this book he does not go into any great detail of constitutional matters, but his general attitude can be gauged from the following passage, which follows a description of the pre-war constitutional organisation:

"I would like to see this cumbersome machinery streamlined by a new constitution embracing the whole of Malaya, but I refrain from exact suggestions because the change would involve new treaties with the Rulers, with whom we are not yet in contact, and delicate" [POSSIBLY MISSING TEXT].

===== Page 102 =====
Delicate questions of jurisdiction. I content myself therefore with a general plea for a new citizenship, for the whole of Malaya, under a constitution which may be negotiated and evolved in due time.

It may thus be expected that Mr. Hake will not be a severe critic of the policy as now elaborated.

===== Page 103 =====
MR. E. D. SHEARN.

Mr. Shearn was one of the leading European lawyers in Kuala Lumpur before the war, and was for some years a member of the Federal Council. He was interned on the occupation of Malaya by the Japanese.

His views on the new Malayan policy, in the form of a reply to Sir Frank Swettenham, are published in an article in the January 1946 issue of "British Malaya" (the journal of the Association of British Malaya).

His attitude towards the policy is very favourable, as is shown by the last paragraph of his article:

"I do not pretend that my experience of Malayan affairs is in any way comparable with that of so distinguished an administrator as Sir Frank Swettenham, but I do claim that it is more recent, and as a result of it I am convinced that if Malaya is to become and remain the happy, prosperous and peaceful country which so many of us have known and loved, it can only be achieved by remaining aware of the trend of current thought and activities, and insisting upon a progressive rather than a reactionary policy. His Majesty's Government appears to me to be conscious of the necessities and also of the dangers of the situation."

===== Page 104 =====
SIR GEORGE MAXWELL, K.B.E., C.M.G.

Sir George is 74. He retired from a long and active career in the Malayan Service in 1926, having been for the previous six years Chief Secretary in the Federated Malay States. Prior to this appointment, he had held various Administrative and Judicial posts in the Federated Malay States and the Straits Settlements, including those of Solicitor General and Acting Attorney General, Straits Settlements, and those of British Adviser in Kedah and Acting British Resident in Perak.

Since his retirement Sir George has maintained a very active interest in Malayan affairs. On the 14th of November last he published in the Straits Times an article strongly in support of the new policy. That article, however, was based on the Secretary of State's preliminary statement of October the 10th, 1945, and was written on the assumption that the new policy implied an extended federation, to include all the nine States, as opposed to a full political Union. Sir George has since seen the White Paper, and as a result has completely reversed his views. He now stands out as one of the strongest opponents of the new policy.

He first gave expression to his altered opinion in an article entitled "The Foreign Jurisdiction Act in Malaya", of which he sent us a copy, prior to publication, on the 29th of January. He has since expanded his criticisms in a further article entitled "Malayan Union: Amalgamation or Federation?", a copy of which was also sent to us prior to publication (on the 14th of February). Having previously supposed the policy to be one of federation, he had imagined that the discussions with the Rulers would be directed merely towards persuading them to federate of their own free will, and it had apparently never occurred to him that they might be asked

===== Page 105 =====
To cede jurisdiction to His Majesty. It is this cession, and the resultant "degradation" of the Rulers, which underlies his whole change of attitude. He seems to fear that these measures will completely disrupt the life of the Malays, and he even speaks of the Malays as becoming "detribalised" and compares the process with the detribalisation which has taken place in certain parts of Africa with demoralising results. He appears to regard the application to Malaya of the Foreign Jurisdiction Act as nothing short of an insult to the country, and referred to the Rulers and the States as "ceasing to exist as such." He is most agitated by the idea that the Rulers will be relegated to the position of "Advisers" even in Mohammedan religious matters, but the new status of the Rulers in all its aspects fills him with alarm.

It may be regarded as certain that Sir George will press these views very strongly in discussion, and will urge the abandonment of the policy of Union in favour of one of extended federation (which would not involve the loss of jurisdiction or status by the Rulers). His attitude is more constructive than that of Sir Richard Winstedt in that he does make some positive suggestions, but the answer to the two critics is nonetheless fundamentally the same. The alternative proposed is no real alternative. It merely touches the surface of the problem. In the first place, a federation of the nine States on the lines proposed by Sir George Maxwell, while it might do something to diminish geographical parochialism, would do nothing to ease racial problems or create a sense of common citizenship. The Rulers, though federated, would remain independent Monarchs; there would be no more likelihood that they would accept Chinese and Indians as their subjects than in the past. Racial difficulties, in fact, would remain completely unresolved. In the second place, there is no indication

===== Page 106 =====
Indication that the Federation as suggested by Sir George would ever come about. His proposal is that the previous system should be allowed to re-establish itself, and that the idea of an extended federation should then be put to the Rulers for consideration. All past evidence tends to show that the Rulers, once entrenched in their previous positions, would reject the idea. Sir George speaks of the previous limited federation of four States as having been a model of efficiency. That efficiency was achieved, under his own direction as Chief Secretary, at the cost of a centralisation which made the federation extremely unpopular outside its boundaries. This led subsequently to a policy of decentralisation, which was instituted in 1934 and was designed to make the idea of federation less repulsive to the Unfederated States. Right up to the time of the Japanese occupation, however, there was no sign that these States would be willing to join an extended Federation.

For the rest, it may be said that Sir George has misunderstood the policy and greatly over-estimated its dangers. On the religious point, an important concession has now been made to meet the point of view which he holds. On his more general contentions, there is no intention to disrupt the traditional way of life of the Malays or to alienate them from their Rulers. He describes the policy as "undemocratic" and as "designed for the convenience of officials". If by "the convenience of officials" he means "efficient administration", this is true, but it is only a very small part of the truth. So far from being undemocratic, the policy represents the only means by which Malaya can advance towards a democratic future. It is far more democratic than Sir George's own conception of an extended

===== Page 107 =====
Extended federation based entirely on Malay privilege.

Sir George has also sent us a long and detailed memorandum about citizenship. This memorandum is now being considered in relation to the citizenship proposals, but it may not be possible for detailed views to be formulated upon it before Friday, 22nd February. It may be said at once, however, that he is quite mistaken in supposing that naturalisation after five years' residence will be automatic, subject to an affirmation of allegiance. On the contrary, naturalisation will only be granted after the most careful scrutiny of each individual case. Sir George might well be so informed, since this misconception underlies much of his criticism.

===== Page 108 =====
SIR CECIL CLEMENTI, G.C.M.G.

Sir Cecil is 70 years of age. He is a very sick man, and it is most unlikely that he will be able to be present for the discussion with the Secretary of State. He entered the Hong Kong Service as a cadet in 1899, and left Hong Kong for British Guiana in 1912. After serving in British Guiana and Ceylon, he returned to Hong Kong as Governor in 1925 and remained there until 1930. He was Governor and High Commissioner in Malaya from 1930 to 1934, and retired from this service; this was his last appointment.

A brilliant Chinese scholar, Sir Cecil was nevertheless unpopular with the Chinese in Malaya. Indeed, his period of office in Malaya, which coincided with the world depression and which saw the introduction of the decentralisation policy, was one of the most controversial in the history of the country.

Sir Cecil has expressed his views on the new policy through Sir Thomas Southern. His concern is entirely for the Malays, whom he regards as the people of the country and indeed the only people who have a right to call the country their own. He is afraid that by any admission of Chinese or Indians to political rights in Malaya, we shall destroy the friendship of the Malays for the British and drive the Malays into a violent opposition which will probably be linked with agitation in Indonesia.

Sir Cecil's views, while uncompromising, have been presented in a very moderate manner, and he has refrained from the somewhat intemperate language used, for instance, by Sir Richard Winstedt. He has already been informed that the Secretary of State has very much in mind the dangers to which he refers. The fundamental answer to his point of view is, I think, the same as that to Sir Richard Winstedt or

===== Page 109 =====
Sir George Maxwell. No alternative is offered to the new policy, and in fact no alternative exists. A mere return to the past would be in the worst interests of everybody, particularly the Malays. We are not forsaking the Malays, but teaching them to stand on their own feet.

===== Page 110 =====
SIR FRANK SWETTENHAM, G.C.M.G., C.H.

Sir Frank is 95. His experience goes right back to the early days of the British connection with the Malay States, and he is one of the most illustrious figures in the history of Malaya. He was British Resident, Selangor in 1882 and British Resident Perak from 1889 to 1895. He was the first Resident General in the Federated Malay States (1896 to 1901) and was Governor of the Straits Settlements from 1901 to 1904.

In spite of his advanced age, Sir Frank is still very active and maintains an intense interest in Malaya. His views on the new policy have been expressed in articles in the "Times" and elsewhere. He criticises the policy much on the same grounds as Sir Richard Winstedt. He left Malaya over 40 years ago, and in the circumstances it is not surprising that his views should harp back to the past and should fail to appreciate the necessity for political change.

===== Page 111 =====
Mr. Haynes entered the Malayan Service in 1901 and retired from it in 1933. He is now 67 years of age. He held a great variety of posts including those of British Resident Pahang, British Resident Perak, British Adviser Kedah, British Adviser Kelantan, and Colonial Secretary, Straits Settlements.

Mr. Haynes has not given us his views in writing, but his sympathies are strongly with the Malays, and he may be expected to criticise the policy somewhat on the lines of Sir Richard Winstedt.

===== Page 112 =====
Captain Gammans has been Unionist member for the Hornsey Division of Middlesex since 1941. He is 50 years of age. He entered the Malayan Service in 1920 and retired from it in 1934. His 14 years in the service included two years' secondment to the British Embassy in Tokyo.

He has stood out in Parliament as a staunch and eloquent defender of the British record in Malaya, particularly at the time when that record was being most vigorously attacked after the fall of Singapore. He has not committed any views to paper on the new policy as such.

===== Page 113 =====
To:-

Sir Shenton Thomas, GCMG., OBE.,
Pound House,
Brabourne Lees,
Nr. Ashford, Kent.

Sir Andrew Caldecott, GCMG., CBE.,
Pier Point,
Itchenor,
Nr. Chichester, Sussex.

Sir Richard Winstedt, KBE., CMG.,
10 Ross Court,
Putney Heath,
S.W.15.

Sir Laurence Guillemard, GCMG., KCB.,
Rodsell Manor,
Shackleford,
Nr. Godalming, Surrey.

A.B. Egmont Hake, Esq., CBE.,
c/o Rubber Growers Association Inc.,
19, Fenchurch Street,
E.C.3.

E.D. Shearn, Esq.,
5, Vincent Square Mansions,
S.W.1.

Sir George Maxwell, KBE., CMG.,
Chindles,
High Salvington,
Worthing, Sussex.

Sir Cecil Clementi, GCMG.,
Holmer Court,
Holmer Green,
Nr. High Wycombe.

Sir Frank Swettenham, GCMG., CH.,
22, Mount Street,
Mayfair, W.1.

===== Page 114 =====
18th February, 1946.

I expect that you have been following closely the debates and discussions on the policy of His Majesty's Government on the future constitutions of the Malayan Union and Singapore as set out in the White Paper (Cmd.6724). In the course of these discussions, it has been suggested and I have agreed that I should personally acquaint myself with the views of distinguished persons with an intimate knowledge of Malaya on various issues arising from the Statement of Policy.

In view of your long and distinguished connection with that country, I should very much value an opportunity of discussing these matters with you, and I should be glad to know whether it would be convenient for you to come to the Colonial Office for this purpose at 3 p.m. on Friday next. I am inviting various gentlemen to come at the same time.

Yours sincerely,

(Sgd.) G.H. Hall

Sent to people as on attached list.

===== Page 115 =====
DRAFT.

I expect that you have been following closely the debates and discussions on the policy of His Majesty's Government on the future constitutions of the Malayan Union and Singapore as set out in the White Paper (Cmd.6724). In the course of these discussions it has been suggested and I have agreed that I should personally acquaint myself with the views of distinguished persons with an intimate knowledge of Malaya on various issues arising on the Statement of Policy.

In view of your long and distinguished connection with that country I should very much value an opportunity of discussing these matters with you and I should be glad to know whether it would be convenient for you to come to the Colonial Office for this purpose at 3 p.m. on Friday next. I am inviting various other gentlemen to come at the same time.

===== Page 116 =====
[UNABLE TO SCRAPE]

===== Page 117 =====
NOTE OF SIR CECIL CLAMENTI'S VIEWS ON THE MALAYAN POLITICAL SITUATION.

Sir Cecil Clamenti is acutely anxious about the future of Malaya and fears that unless the matter is very carefully handled, we shall have the Palestine trouble over again on a larger scale.

The Malay Peninsula, with its Malay States, is the home and fatherland of the Malays.

Owing to European developments in mining and rubber-growing, Chinese and Indians have poured into the country until their numbers together almost, if not entirely, exceed those of the indigenous population.

For a time, owing to the position of the Sultans as Rulers and to the policy of refusing land to outside races, the people got on happily together. The immigrants made their money and generally went back to their own countries. Malaya was proud of its friendly atmosphere. Socially the Sultans' Courts prevented the inferiority complex from developing and made Europeans desirous of good social relations with the Malays generally.

Even before this last war the Malays were beginning to get uneasy; plans for settling Chinese on the land were being talked of and to a small degree carried out. Also organizations sponsored by the Government of China were being allowed in the Straits Settlements, which, being almost entirely settled by Chinese, are on a different footing from the Malay States. These things upset the minds of the Malays and also, incidentally, worried the 'Straits Chinese' who are Malay speaking and regard the peninsula as their homeland.

If the paramount position of the Malays in their States is tampered with in any way, their loyalty will be seriously strained.

They are closely in touch with the Malays in the Dutch East Indies, especially in Sumatra. Their civilization at present is tribal. The different States have different dialects and 'adat' i.e., custom on which their whole system rests. These find their counterparts in Sumatra; the families, especially the reigning ones, intervene and intermarry.

If the Malays feel that we are not keeping to the original principles on which they first admitted us to their country, the Indonesian trouble will spread to them.

Do not let us have another Palestine in a wild country full of jungle and mountain, whose people, for all their gentle manners and friendly ways, inherit the blood of the Malay pirates. Cutting Chinese throats was a great pastime not so many generations ago. Much lies dormant which we must desire shall remain so.

Very few Europeans in the Straits Settlements, in Singapore, Penang and Malacca, especially Singapore, realized or thought about Malay matters, although close to their doors. Making their money and spending it seemed all their interest and one could not but marvel at their restricted outlook. Will these people influence things too much?

Sir Cecil hopes these considerations are in the minds of those in charge of Malayan affairs.

===== Page 118 =====
EXTRACT FROM THE STRAITS TIMES OF 15 Nov. 1945.
SINGAPORE

THE MALAYAN UNION

By Sir Richard Winstedt

Apparently this ugly duckling, a Malay Union, was begotten secretly by the Coalition Government out of pusillanimity or high policy and deposited, probably with relief, at the door of Mr. Attlee, whose supporters have hitherto professed a most sensitive regard for subject peoples.

Unmanned perhaps by being saddled with the foundling, the Labour Government presented it to Parliament shamefacedly as it was conceived—that is, obliquely in answer to a question in the House.

It was nervous shame, too, one may hope, that drove the Secretary of State to present himself as a most tyrannical mid-wife, determined that the foundling must be accepted by the Malay Rulers.

Imagine the uproar if by a stroke of the pen Whitehall were to transfer to Scotland two English counties without consulting the inhabitants, and if the transaction were to be presented to the House as an accomplished fact. Yet this in effect is what has happened to the British subjects (mainly Chinese) of two of the three Straits Settlements.

Imagine the position in Palestine if the Government were to announce that there was to be a majority of Jews and that Jews and Arabs had

Sir Richard Olaf Winstedt is best remembered in Malaya for his contribution to education and to the literature of Malaya. He was Director of Education from 1924 to 1931 and General Adviser, Johore, from 1931 to 1935, when he retired to take up the post of Reader in Malay at London University. He was appointed Director of the Royal Asiatic Society in 1940. Sir Richard has published several books on Malaya and the Malay language.

been given equal political rights and that that settled the Palestinean problem.

Yet apparently the Malay Rulers are to be required to sign away the birthright of the Malay people to Chinese and Indians whom they admitted on our advice for the planting of rubber and mining of tin.

In England equal political rights for the three races sound just and proper. To those that know, it means the extinction of the Malay in political life, with no lifting of the Chinese and Indian bar against his admission into commerce.

Neither Malay Ruler nor Chinese merchant has been consulted or given time for consideration. The new scheme is to be laid before the Rulers and acquiescence required, while they are still sore and suffering from the Japanese invasion. Having foiled them in war, we rush them in peace. And the emissary chosen for the task is a stranger unable to speak Malay or Chinese.

===== Page 119 =====
50823/35
Keer
1997

===== Page 120 =====
50823/35

===== Page 121 =====
The image provided is too blurry and low-resolution to accurately recognize any text. It appears to be a blank or partially obscured document. Therefore, no text can be extracted from this image.

===== Page 122 =====
Future Policy in Malaya. Discussions with and views of prominent Malayans. 1946. MS Records of the British Colonial Office CO 273/676/4. The National Archives (Kew, United Kingdom).
*State Papers Online Colonial*, link.gale.com/apps/doc/XUEFDK839931416/SPOC?u=nuslib&sid=bookmark-SPOC&xid=4cc6c44f. Accessed 1 Mar. 2026.

Gale Document Number: GALE|XUEFDK839931416

