===== Page 1 =====
Policy.
Malayan Union Constitution.
Composition of Government Advisory Council

Previous
S. 50823/17/2

Subsequent

204
998. 27/1
mi Palmer 29/7
mi Nuttgroe 30/7
mi Grossmith

R. 204 PUT BY
R. 318 19/9
204 OUT 29/10
the Boundillan 287/10
204 OUT 29/10

CO 273/675/15

===== Page 2 =====
Keep

1997

===== Page 3 =====
1. B.M.A. (M) win W.O. tel. 0.6008
(Orig. regid. on 50623/17/2/46)

12/2/46

M. Pastin

DPLS take the reply to contain the following statement, that it is clearly a matter for approval by the SOS.

1. Advisory Council should from the start be on as broadly representative a basis as conditions allow (including transport conditions).

2. Progressively the Council should move to the stage where it is likely to merge into the Leg. 6 as gradually planned in the course of the local consultations to be completed by the Gov in accordance with part 7 (md 6724).

3. The Gov should use a small selected - or easily available - section of the Advisory Council as a confidential executive committee.

===== Page 4 =====
4. The members of the Admiralty Council shall have the necessary documents, draft bills, agenda, etc. before each meeting. If they cannot attend, they shall send a note of their advice.

5. Proceedings of Admiralty Council (but note of Embargo Executive Committee) shall be open to Press representation.

6. For the purpose of consultations on eventual constitution of Executive Legislative Committees, the Government shall form a special consultation conference which shall include: (1) Embargo executive committeemen; (2) Limited official members of the rest of the Admiralty Council; (3) Two or three outside informants.

Final agreement to be achieved by Government-in-Admiralty Council.

7. Official members of Admiralty Council are confined to those who will be the Executive Legislative Committee.

The final result is 2. A in the helm.

S August 14/2

===== Page 5 =====
This matter has been discussed between Sir E. Gent, Mr. Lloyd and myself and I have embodied the general conclusions in the draft telegram herewith.

As regards the paragraphs in this draft which relate to Singapore, see minutes on 50823/17/2.

Sir G. Gater.

I have passed the draft on 50823/17/2/46 of a letter to Mr. Gimson to cover inter alia the draft telegram on this file if that should be approved.

The first paragraph of the draft telegram puts to B.M.A.(M) a scheme for the early stages of the Malayan Union Advisory Council, and its gradual evolution into a fully constitutional body, in the terms outlined in Sir E. Gent's minute of the 14th February. That scheme, if I may say so, seems to me to be basically sound. Since it provides fully for the broadest possible representative basis which local conditions will permit in the early stages; it nevertheless should not prejudice the ultimate composition of the Executive and Legislative Councils of the Malayan Union and should allow fully in every way for consultation of all representative sections of local opinion in planning the composition of the Legislature into which the Advisory Council is ultimately to merge.

The remaining paragraphs of the draft telegram deal with the similar question for Singapore. We cannot there take a definite line without consultation with Mr. Gimson to whom it is proposed to refer after the telegram has gone. The draft does, however, leave it open to people on the spot to comment on the idea of a plan for Singapore similar to that advocated in the earlier part of the telegram for the Malayan Union.

Dr. Lloyd

25.2.46.

I think that these proposals for the constitution of the Malayan Union Advisory Council are on right terms. Director proposals for Singapore have been put to the Prime Minister in a draft in the Plenary.

F. F. 26.2

===== Page 6 =====
2 TO BMA(M) Lt. C.O. No. 27/2/46 W.O.
Pin W.O. No. 99552.

===== Page 7 =====
M. Lloyd

When we discussed the composition of the MU Legislature Co., we surely agreed that the Senior Military Officer shall be included as a nominated Official member (as in S'port).

I did not see the latter to serve. Speed or Shot have asked for the Court para to be amended. In the recent draft, I will advise that we shall agree to make provision in MU as in S'port.

As a matter of history, in present possession conditions in the Malay Union, it will in fact be most embarrassing for the Govt not

===== Page 8 =====
To have a military spokesman on the Council in view of the importance of military affairs.
T.S. resisting buildings,
Troops' discipline.

S. G. Gintel
22/2

I see no Applicant there attended him for a record with his French views.

M. Gintel
22/2

1. Two countries to see
2. Recipient.

3. To Sir E. Speed
13.26.2.46.

4. Real Echelon B.M.A. (M) via W.O. tel. 0.1112
11.3.46.

5. Sir E. Speed
18.2.46.

6. To Sir E. Speed
25.2.46.

7. B.M.A. (M) via W.O. tel. 4864
18.3.46.

===== Page 9 =====
I do not at all like the proposal in paragraph 1 of No. 7 that, on the Malayan Union Advisory Council, there should be five Malays and five Chinese. Even on a strictly "population" basis the Malays (according to the 1941 estimate) will be in a substantial majority over the Chinese in the Malayan Union. The figures are roughly Malays 2,200,000, Chinese 1,780,000.

In fact, of course, practically all the Malays, but by no means anything like all the Chinese, would be eligible to become Malayan Union citizens, even on the basis of the Order in Council as drafted. If the proposals in that Order in Council are modified it will be in the way of making it more difficult for [them] to become Malayan Union citizens. In these circumstances I feel quite sure that there should be a majority of Malays over Chinese in the Advisory Council and I would suggest that this should be in the proportion of six to four. (To my mind even this would be giving the Chinese more than their due share).

We need not go into the question raised in paragraph 3 which can be dealt with by the Governor on his arrival.

As regards paragraph 4 it is prescribed in the Order in Council that the official language of the Legislative Council will be English. It seems to me therefore that it is quite certain that the proceedings of the Advisory Council should be in English.

[Signature]
20.3.46

I would send a message to his say we accept nature on this matter, as to 4 — ns at x

This was discussed today with Mr. Creek Jones, Sir E. Gale, Mr. Allord and Sir E. Gent.

Draft herewith sets out the

===== Page 10 =====
Decision reached.

After action No. 3-6 a relevant minute was passed. Be removed from this file to which they are NOT relevant. They relate to membership of the Day Co. (Rescue to Mr. Bourdillon for this).

9.9.6.
22/3

8 Let to Bm A(m) via W.0 James. 23/3/46

Mr. Bourdillon.

Rescue vide Mr. Paslen's minute 22/3. Please see 50823/40/46 below.

R.204
27/3.

Many thanks. Putty.

B.T.B. 28/3

===== Page 11 =====
9. To Malay Union Despatch No. 2 - 2.4.46.

10. To M.U. Despatch 3 - 2.4.46.

These despatches are registered here only with reference to the passages in them which deal with the M.U. Advisory Council. Other copies are registered on the relevant files.

No action is required.

Put by.

A.T.B. 1944
at once

11. M.U. Gl. 32 - 5.4.46.

A copy of No 11 has been registered here because its immediate subject is the M.U. Advisory Council. Its whole importance, however, is in relation to wider political developments, and the original is accordingly registered on 50823/34/46.

Put by.

A.T.B. 1944

Tell to Malayan Union 243
Immediate (Court) - 20.6.46

===== Page 12 =====
13. Keep from Mr. U. no. 33. 11/6/46.

14. Lt. from Mr. U. no. 474. 23/6/46.

15. Lt. from Mr. U. no. 484. 24/6/46.

16. Lt. from Mr. U. no. 490. 24/6/46.

Put by. A.T.B. 2/7.

16 A.P.Q1. at once.

Malayan Union no. 58. 13/4/46.

Mr. Parkin - You may wish to see in M'Bandillah's absence the meeting of the 17th. Forwards his minutes of the first Executive Committee of the M.U. Advisory Council.

Para. 2 (iii) is interesting in showing that Government shops are not regarded as a feasible undertaking or an effective method of lowering the price level.

Put by. R.J.S. Dewar 24/7.

Mr. Grosomir to an item (1 (iii) (T.U. Bill))

3077. Mr. Hashtag to an item (1 (vi))

9.9.8. 27/7

Action taken 191-

1) This file need no longer be seen.

2) It is widened to put the

===== Page 13 =====
Proceedings of the Race Committee on a file which pursues to deal with the composition of the advisory cell, fresh files also. I have started.

J. H. P.
12/9/7

Lem. Malay Chin No. 894

No. 17 conveys very welcome news. I can see no possible objection to our authorizing Sir Edward Gent

(a) to issue a renewed invitation as he proposes in paragraph 1, or

(b) to consult the Malay representatives on the Working Committee, as he proposes in paragraph 4.

Draft herewith.

H. T. B.
18.9.46.

Tel. sent after speaking to Mr Lloyd.

H. T. B. 18/9/46.

To. Malay Chin Tel No. 1291 — 18/9/46.

===== Page 14 =====
There is a copy of No 19 in the Rain Policy File.

Patty H.T.B. 23710 at CA.

===== Page 15 =====
MALAYAN UNION AND SINGAPORE

SUMMARY OF PROPOSED CONSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS

Presented by the Secretary of State for the Colonies to Parliament
by Command of His Majesty
March 1946

LONDON
HIS MAJESTY'S STATIONERY OFFICE
TWOPENCE NET

Cmd. 6749

===== Page 16 =====
MALAYAN UNION AND SINGAPORE

Summary of proposed constitutional arrangements

Preliminary

1. In the course of the debates in the House of Lords on the Straits Settlements (Repeal) Bill, it was indicated that Orders in Council will be necessary to constitute the Malayan Union and the Colony of Singapore and to provide for a Malayan Union Citizenship in accordance with the statement of the policy of His Majesty’s Government in the recent White Paper (Cmd. 6724).

The following is a summary of the principal constitutional provisions which, if the Bill is passed, it is proposed to include in Orders in Council and the accompanying Royal Instructions to the Governors.

A.—MALAYAN UNION

Malayan Union Order in Council, 1946

2. (a) The Malayan Union Order in Council will provide for the establishment of a Malayan Union, which will comprise the Malay States of the Malay peninsula and the Settlements of Penang and Malacca.

(b) The Order will come into operation on an appointed day; but the provisions relating to the Executive and Legislative Councils, the Council of Sultans, the State and Settlement Councils, and the Malay Advisory Councils will not come into effect until a date or dates, to be subsequently fixed by the Governor, which must be within six months of the appointed day, unless a longer period is approved by the Secretary of State. During this initial phase the Governor will, as explained in paragraph 11 below, be empowered to enact any necessary legislation with the help of an Advisory Council.

Governor

3. The Governor will be appointed by Commission under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet and will exercise his powers in accordance with his Commission, the Royal Instructions, the Orders in Council, and other laws in force in the Union. Provision will be made in the usual form for the appointment of an officer to administer the Government or to act as the Governor’s Deputy when the Governor’s office becomes vacant or he is unable, for such reason as illness or absence, to fulfil his duties; and for the Governor to use the Public Seal, to issue Crown grants of land within the Union, to suspend and dismiss public servants, and to exercise on His Majesty’s behalf the prerogative of pardon.

Executive Council

4. The Executive Council will, in accordance with Royal Instructions, be composed of the Governor as Chairman, and the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General and the Financial Secretary as ex officio members, together with two Official Members and five Unofficial Members appointed by the Governor. The usual provisions will be made regarding tenure of office (normally three years). The Governor will summon and preside over the Executive Council, and he will be required to consult the Council in accordance with the usual instructions in Colonial constitutions. The Governor need not act in accordance with the advice of the Council but, if he differs from it, he must report to the Secretary of State with the reasons for his action.

Courts

5. The Order will provide for a Court of unlimited civil and criminal jurisdiction to be called the Supreme Court, which may consist of a High Court and a Court of Appeal. It will also provide for subordinate Courts. There will be a Chief Justice and such other judges as may be required.

===== Page 17 =====
Legislative Council

6. (a) There will be a Legislative Council, consisting of the Governor as President, three ex officio members (the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General, and the Financial Secretary), Official Members not exceeding eighteen and Unofficial Members not exceeding twenty-one. [Note.—These numbers are stated as maxima, because while, as explained in paragraph 7 of Cmd. 6724, it is intended that the constitution of the Legislative Council, as of other Councils in the Malayan Union, will be broad-based and representative, the final determination of numbers and of the details of representation will not be decided until the Governor has had full opportunity to consult local opinion. The Official Members will be persons holding office under the Crown in the Union and the Unofficial Members will be Malayan Union Citizens not holding office, who are proficient in the English language, but the Governor may appoint a British subject who is not a Union citizen to be an Unofficial Member.

(b) The Order will make the usual provision regarding disqualification for membership; tenure of office (normally three years); temporary appointments during vacancies; the summoning of public officers to take part, but not to vote, in the Council’s proceedings; and the precedence of Members. The Governor will preside and one quarter of the Members, excluding the President, will constitute a quorum.

(c) The Governor, with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council, will make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Union. Questions will be determined by a majority of the votes of the Members present and voting.

(d) A clause, commonly inserted in Colonial constitutions, will confer certain reserved powers on the Governor. If he considers that it is expedient in the interests of “public order, public faith, or good government” that any Bill or motion proposed for decision in the Council should have effect he may, if the Council fails to pass such a measure in a reasonable time and form, declare it to have been passed by the Council either in its original form or with any amendments put forward in the Council. The Governor will report to the Secretary of State every such declaration and any objection to the declaration if put forward in writing by a Member within seven days of the declaration. Such a declaration may be revoked by the Secretary of State. “Public order, public faith, or good government” includes in particular—

(i) foreign relations and relations with other parts of the British Commonwealth of Nations;

(ii) defence;

(iii) subjects requiring uniformity of legislation between the Union and the Colony of Singapore; and

(iv) matters pertaining to the creation or abolition of any public office, and to the appointment, salary or other conditions of service of public officers.

(e) A Bill will become law on receiving the Governor’s assent or, if reserved by him for the signification of His Majesty’s pleasure, the assent of His Majesty through the Secretary of State. Any law to which the Governor has assented may be disallowed by His Majesty through the Secretary of State.

(f) The Royal Instructions, following common form, will provide that certain Bills shall not, except in case of urgency or where prior approval of the Secretary of State has been obtained, be assented to unless they contain a suspending clause. These Bills will include Bills affecting, for example, currency, defence, treaty obligations, and the trade, transport, or communications of any part of His Majesty’s dominions.

===== Page 18 =====
(g) The official language of the Council will be English. The Council will be empowered to make Standing Rules and Orders.

(h) Any Member may introduce a Bill or motion or present a petition; but, without the Governor's assent, the Council may not proceed with a Bill, motion, or petition involving a charge on public funds or taxation or the suspension of the Council's Standing Rules and Orders.

(i) There will be a session of the Council at least once in every year.

The Council of Sultans

7. (a) The Order will provide for a Council of Sultans, which will consist of the Governor as President and the Malay Sultans, together with the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General, and the Financial Secretary.

(b) The functions of the Council will be—

(i) to consider legislation, relating solely to matters of Muhammadan religion, which the Malay Advisory Council in any State has approved for enactment (see paragraph 8 below); and

(ii) to advise the Governor on any matter which he may refer to the Council for discussion, or on any matter which, with his prior consent, any Sultan may propose for discussion.

(c) Before any Bill which the Malay Advisory Council in any State has approved for enactment receives the Sultan's assent, it will be submitted to the Council of Sultans, which will require to be satisfied by certificate of the Attorney General that it relates solely to matters of Muhammadan religion, does not involve the imposition, collection, or remission of any tax or tithe, and is not in conflict with any secular law in force in the State.

For the consideration of such Bills there will be a Muhammadan Legislation Committee composed only of the Muhammadan members of the Council under the Chairmanship of the senior Sultan present. Any Bill approved by the Committee will then be transmitted, with the formal approval of the Council, to the Sultan concerned for his assent.

(d) The Order will make provision for the summoning of any person to take part, but not to vote, in the Council's proceedings and for the order of precedence. Eight Members, in addition to the Governor, will constitute a quorum.

(e) The official languages will be Malay and English. The Council will be empowered to make Standing Rules and Orders.

(f) The Council will meet at least twice in every year.

Malay Advisory Councils

8. (a) The Order will, in each of the Malay States, establish a Malay Advisory Council, consisting of the Sultan and of such persons of the Malay race, professing the Muhammadan religion, as the Sultan may appoint.

(b) The functions of each Council will be to advise the Sultan on all matters which affect Muhammadan religion in the State or which may be referred to the Council at the request of the Resident Commissioner with the Governor's approval, and on the making of laws which relate solely to Muhammadan religion and do not involve taxation or tithes. No Bill will become law until it has received the assent of the Sultan after approval by the Council of Sultans (see paragraph 7(c) above).

(c) The Order will provide for such matters as tenure of office and precedence, which will be at the pleasure of the Sultan. The Sultan will preside at meetings or, in his absence, a Member appointed by him.

===== Page 19 =====
(d) In the event of a conflict between a law made by a Malay Advisory Council and one made by either the Legislative Council or a State Council, the latter will prevail.

(e) The official language of the Malay Advisory Councils will be Malay. Each Council will be empowered to make Standing Rules and Orders, and will hold a session at least once a year.

State and Settlement Councils

9. (a) The Order will provide for the establishment of a State Council in each of the Malay States and of a Settlement Council in each of the Settlements of Penang and Malacca. Each such Council will consist of the Resident Commissioner of the State or Settlement as Chairman, and of such ex officio Members, Nominated Official Members, Nominated Unofficial Members and Elected Members as may be prescribed by law or regulation. [Note.—As stated in paragraph 7 of Cmd. 6724, while it is the intention that these Councils will be broad-based and representative, the final determination of numbers and of the details of representation will not be decided until the Governor has had full opportunity for consultation with local opinion. In particular, the method of election of Elected Members will be a matter for such consultation.] Unofficial Members of State and Settlement Councils will be persons not holding office under the Crown, who are proficient in English or Malay. In the case of a State Council, they will normally be Malayan Union citizens but the Governor may appoint a British subject who is not a Malayan Union citizen. In the case of a Settlement Council, they will be either Malayan Union citizens or British subjects.

(b) The Councils will be empowered to make laws on any subject which is declared by the Governor in Council to be of a purely local nature or in respect of which powers of legislation shall have been delegated to them by the Legislative Council, but any such law may be altered or repealed by the Union Legislature and will be void if repugnant to Union legislation. Each Council will also exercise such powers of local administration as may be prescribed by law or regulation or be allocated to it by the Governor in Council.

(c) The Order will provide for such matters as tenure of office and precedence.

(d) The Resident Commissioner of the State or Settlement will normally preside at meetings of the Council and decisions will be made by a majority of votes. The provisions relating to assent to Bills and disallowance of laws passed by the Legislative Council (see paragraph 6 (e) and (f) above) will apply to Bills and to laws passed by a State or Settlement Council. In the transaction of business and the passing of laws each such Council will conform to Royal Instructions issued to the Governor and to any instructions which the Governor may issue to the Resident Commissioner.

(e) The official languages will be Malay and English. Each Council will be empowered to make Standing Rules and Orders.

(f) One quarter of the Members, excluding the Resident Commissioner or the Member presiding, will constitute a quorum.

(g) Each Council will hold a session at least once a year.

(h) Any Member may introduce a Bill or motion or present a petition; but, without the recommendation or consent of the Resident Commissioner, the Council may not proceed with a Bill, motion, or petition involving a charge on public funds or taxation or the suspension of the Council's Standing Rules and Orders.

===== Page 20 =====
Transitional Provisions

10. For the purposes of the transition from Military to Civil Government, the necessary provision will be made for the continuance in force of existing legislation, continuity of legal proceedings, etc.

Advisory Council

11. Pending the constitution of the Executive and Legislative Councils (see paragraph 2 (b) above), the Governor may make laws in consultation with an Advisory Council, consisting of the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary, and such other persons as he may appoint. [Note.—As indicated in paragraph 7 of Cmd. 6724, the Governor will be instructed to select this Advisory Council on a basis as broadly representative as conditions in this phase allow, and to complete as soon as possible his local consultations with a view to the formal institution of the Executive and Legislative Councils with the minimum of delay.]

Transfer of assets and liabilities.

12. (a) Except as mentioned in paragraph 12 (d) below, all assets of the Governments of the Federated Malay States and of any Malay State will, after the appointed day, be transferred to the Government of the Malayan Union.

(b) Straits Settlements assets physically situated in, or pertaining to, Penang and Malacca will be transferred to the Government of the Malayan Union.

(c) Straits Settlements assets common to all the Straits Settlements will be apportioned and the share attributable to Penang and Malacca will be transferred to the Government of the Malayan Union. The apportionment will be effected by agreement between the Governors, subject to the approval of the Secretary of State.

(d) The transfer of assets will not apply to the personal residences or estates of any Sultan, or to any buildings or lands which are used for the purposes of Muhammadan religion or properties pertaining to the endowment of Muhammadan religious institutions. The Governor will also have power to exclude properties from this part of the Order.

(e) All liabilities of the Governments of the Federated Malay States and of any Malay State will, after the appointed day, be transferred to the Government of the Malayan Union.

(f) All liabilities of the Government of the Straits Settlements will be assumed by the Government of Singapore. The share of such liabilities properly attributable to Penang and Malacca will be determined by agreements between the Governors, subject to approval by the Secretary of State. Contributions proportionate to such a share of these liabilities will be payable to the Government of Singapore from Malayan Union funds.

Miscellaneous

13. (a) An oath of allegiance to His Majesty will be taken, or an affirmation made, by the Members of any Council, other than the Council of Sultans and the Malay Advisory Councils, constituted by the Order.

(b) Any law or regulation made under the Order may be made to operate retrospectively.

(c) The Secretary of State may, by Order, make provision to remove difficulties arising in giving effect to the Order, provided that such an Order be made not later than 1st January, 1948, or is not retrospective beyond the appointed day (see paragraph 2 (b) above).

===== Page 21 =====
(d) Nothing in the Order will affect the power of His Majesty in Council to make laws from time to time for the peace, order and good government of the Union.

B.—COLONY OF SINGAPORE

Singapore Order in Council, 1946

14. (a) The Colony of Singapore, consisting of the Island of Singapore and its dependencies, the Cocos or Keeling Islands and Christmas Island, will be constituted as a separate colony by the Singapore Colony Order in Council.

(b) The Order will come into operation on an appointed day; but the provisions relating to the Executive and Legislative Councils will not come into effect until a date or dates, to be subsequently fixed by the Governor, which must be within six months of the appointed day, unless a longer period is approved by the Secretary of State. During this initial phase the Governor will, as explained in paragraph 20, be empowered to enact any necessary legislation with the help of an Advisory Council.

Governor

15. Provision will be made similar to that in the Malayan Union (see paragraph 3 above) for the appointment and functions of a Governor of the Colony of Singapore.

Executive Council

16. The Executive Council will, in accordance with Royal Instructions, be composed of the Governor as Chairman, four ex-officio Members (the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary, and the President of the Singapore Municipal Commissioners), together with two Official and four Unofficial Members appointed by the Governor. The usual provisions will be made regarding tenure of office (normally three years). The Governor will summon and preside over the Executive Council and he will be required to consult the Council in accordance with the usual instructions in Colonial constitutions. The Governor need not act in accordance with the advice of the Council but, if he differs from it, he must report to the Secretary of State with the reasons for his action.

Courts

17. As in the Malayan Union (see paragraph 5 above), a Supreme Court of unlimited civil and criminal jurisdiction, and subordinate Courts will be established.

Legislative Council

18. (a) There will be a Legislative Council, consisting of the Governor as President, four ex-officio members (the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary and the President of the Municipal Commissioners), Nominated Official Members not exceeding seven, Nominated Unofficial Members not exceeding two, and Elected Members not exceeding nine. [Note.—As in the Malayan Union (see note in paragraph 6 (a) above), these numbers are stated as maxima and cannot be determined until the Governor has had full opportunity to consult local opinion.] Nominated Members will be appointed by the Governor. Elected Members, who, like Nominated Unofficial Members, will be British subjects or Malayan Union citizens, will be chosen in a manner to be prescribed by law.

(b) The provisions regarding the membership of the Legislative Council, legislation and procedure, will be similar to those applying to the Legislative Council in the Malayan Union (see paragraph 6 (b)—(i) above), except in so far as variations are necessary by reason of the fact that the Legislative Council in Singapore will include Elected Members.

===== Page 22 =====
Note. The system of election remains to be devised and may include election by representative bodies and associations.

Transitional Provisions

19. For the purpose of the transition from Military to Civil Government, necessary provision will be made for the continuance in force of existing legislation, continuity of legal proceedings, etc.

Advisory Council

20. (a) Pending the constitution of the Executive and Legislative Councils (see paragraph 14 (b) above), the Governor may make laws in consultation with an Advisory Council, consisting of the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary, and such other persons as he may appoint.

Note. As explained in paragraph 6 of Cmd. 6724, the Governor will be instructed to select this Advisory Council on a basis as broadly representative as conditions in this phase allow, and to complete as soon as possible his local consultations with a view to the formal institution of the Executive and Legislative Councils with the minimum of delay.

Transfer of Assets and Liabilities

21. (a) Straits Settlements assets (except those pertaining exclusively to Settlements other than Singapore) will be transferred to the Government of the Colony of Singapore and will be dealt with as indicated in paragraph 12 (c) above.

(b) Straits Settlements liabilities will be assumed by the Government of Colony of Singapore, which will be entitled to receive contributions from any other government concerned (see paragraph 12 (f) above).

Miscellaneous

22. (a) An oath of allegiance to His Majesty will be taken, or an affirmation made, by the Members of any Council constituted by the Order.

(b) Any law or regulation made under the Order may be made to operate retrospectively to any date.

(c) The Secretary of State may, by Order, make provision to remove difficulties arising in giving effect to the Order, provided that such an Order be not made later than 1st January, 1948, or is not retrospective beyond the appointed day (see paragraph 14 (b) above).

(d) Nothing in the Order will affect the power of His Majesty in Council to make laws from time to time for the peace, order and good government of the Colony.

C. MALAYAN UNION CITIZENSHIP

Malayan Union Citizens

23. The Malayan Union Citizenship Order in Council will provide that the following persons will be Malayan Union citizens.

Note. “Person” includes a female, whether married or not.

(a) Any person born in the Malayan Union or Singapore before the date when the Order comes into force, who is ordinarily resident in the Malayan Union or Singapore on that date.

(b) Any person of eighteen years of age or over ordinarily resident in the Malayan Union or Singapore on the date when the Order comes into force, who has resided in the Malayan Union or Singapore for a period of ten years during the fifteen years preceding the 15th of February, 1942, and who swears or affirms takes the oath of allegiance (i.e., to be faithful and loyal to the Government of the Malayan Union).

===== Page 23 =====
(c) Any person born in the Malayan Union or Singapore on or after the date when the Order comes into force.

(d) Any person born outside the Malayan Union and Singapore on or after the date when the Order comes into force, whose father is a Malayan Union citizen at the time of that person's birth and either was born in the Malayan Union or Singapore or was a Malayan Union citizen under (b) above or had obtained a certificate of naturalization. The minor children (viz: children under eighteen) of persons in categories (a) and (b) will also be Malayan Union citizens.

Japanese nationals will be debarred from obtaining Malayan Union citizenship under the above provisions.

Naturalisation

24. The Governor of the Malayan Union may grant certificates of naturalisation as Malayan Union citizens to applicants who satisfy him:

(a) that they have resided in the Malayan Union or Singapore for a period of one year immediately preceding the date of application and for a further period of four years during the last eight years before the application;

(b) that they are of good character and have an adequate knowledge of the Malay or English language; and

(c) that they intend, if the application is granted, to reside in the Malayan Union or Singapore.

Certificates of naturalization will not be granted until the applicant has taken the oath of allegiance, and the grant of certificates will be in the absolute discretion of the Governor. Minor children may be included in the certificate.

Revocation of certificates of naturalisation

25. The Governor will have power to revoke certificates of naturalisation under provisions which are usual in legislation of this character.

Divestment of Citizenship

26. Any person who was born outside the Union and who becomes a Malayan Union citizen under paragraph 23 (d) above will be able to make a declaration of divestment of citizenship, to be registered under the Order. Also persons who become Malayan Union citizens while minors because their parents either are naturalised or become Malayan Union citizens under paragraph 23 (a) and (b) above will be able to make such declarations within one year of attaining the age of eighteen.

Loss of Citizenship

27. A Malayan Union citizen who becomes naturalised in a foreign state will cease to be a Malayan Union citizen.

===== Page 24 =====
FROM MALAYAN UNION (Sir E. Gent)

TO S. OF S., COLONIES.

D. 27th October, 1946.
R. 27th October 1946, 18:07 hrs.

IMMEDIATE
No. 1053

Addressed to the S. of S.
Repeated by bag to the Governor-General, Singapore.

Your telegram No. 1291. 50823/6/9/46

Malay representation on the Advisory Council.

1. At a meeting of U.M.N.O. representatives this week, Dato Onn, with support of Selangor and Johore representatives, unsuccessfully proposed a motion to modify the existing boycott of the Advisory Council and a motion to maintain the boycott was carried by a majority of 12 in favour, 9 against, and 3 abstaining. Perak and Penang representatives, I understand, were principal exponents of maintenance of the boycott.

2. One result has been unfortunately to increase the strained atmosphere underlying the Working Committee's discussions and it is clear that Dato Onn himself is less sure of his ability to carry any "concession" towards our standpoint and is disposed to go back on some important points on which he had previously been persuaded. This has been particularly evident on finance questions in the last two days.

3. Adamson tells me that the major card in the hand of the boycott party was legal opinion by Braddell that any association in the Advisory Council would necessarily prejudice Malay claims and their consistent refusal to recognise the

/Malayan Union

===== Page 25 =====
Malayan Union or to admit its validity.

4. We shall continue with all possible patience to bring Malay representatives on the Working Committee as far forward as possible in the final recommendations and shortly make arrangements for Plenary Conference.

===== Page 26 =====
OUTWARD TELEGRAM

50823/6/7/46

Cypher (O.T.P.)

TO MALAYAN UNION (Sir E. Gent)

FROM S. OF S., COLONIES.

Sent 18th September, 1946. 16.00 hrs.

IMMEDIATE
No.1291

Your telegram No.874.

I am very glad to hear that Malay representatives may now be willing to serve on your Advisory Council, and I approve the action you propose to take.

===== Page 27 =====
Mr. Bourdillon 18.9.46

Mr. Atace

Mr. ...

Mr. ...

Mr. ...

Mr. ...

DRAFT. CIPHER TELEGRAM

GOVERNOR, (17)

MALAYAN UNION.

IMMEDIATE

Your telegram No. 874.

I am very glad to hear that Malay representatives may now be willing to serve on your Advisory Council, and I approve the action you propose to take.

FURTHER ACTION.
Copy of No. 17 and this telegram on 50823/46.

===== Page 28 =====
FROM MALAYAN UNION (Sir E. Gent)

TO S. OF S., COLONIES.

D. 18th September, 1946.
R. 17th " " 21.30 hrs.

MOST IMMEDIATE
No. 874 Secret.

Addressed to S. of S.
Repeated by Savingram to the Governor General.

There are signs that Malay representatives are reconsidering their abstentionist policy in respect of the Advisory Council and may welcome opportunity to take their seats in the Council if renewed suggestion is made to them on my authority. I should welcome this, not only for the benefit of the advice which Malay representation could contribute to the many important problems which come before the Council, but also because it would serve towards open reconciliation and would be widely appreciated by Malay and non-Malay public opinion.

2. Of the 7 Malay representatives originally invited in March, six accepted and one declined. The latter was intended as Perak representative, and on his refusal, invitation was sent to a leading Malay in Trengganu who, however, had virtually no time to reply before my arrival on 31st March following the general Malay decision to abstain from participation.

3. If I were to keep to the selected list of members, it would mean two Trengganu Malays and no (repeat no) Perak Malay.

===== Page 29 =====
4. I propose in the circumstances to consult Malay representatives on the present Working Committee as to which of the Malay leaders should be selected. This course would please them and would give at least no less satisfactory results than adhering to the 7 original selections.

5. Grateful for very early approval.

===== Page 30 =====
COPY FOR REGISTRATION

En Clair

FROM MALAYAN UNION (Sir E. Gent)

TO S. OF S., COLONIES.

D. 24th June, 1946.
R. 24th June 1946, 16.50 hrs.

IMMEDIATE
No. 490

My 487 of 24th June.

Person invited as representing workers' interests has accepted. Repeat: has accepted invitation.

===== Page 31 =====
INWARD TELEGRAM

COPY FOR REGISTRATION

En Clair

FROM MALAYAN UNION (Sir E. Gent)

TO S. OF S., COLONIES.

D. 24th June, 1946.
R. 24th June, 17.25 hrs.

IMMEDIATE
No. 487 24th June.

My telegram No. 477 of 23rd June.

Paragraph three. Letters Upam and Amoma mean United Planters' Association of Malaya and all Malayan Chinese Miners' Association.

Paragraph four. Word "members" should read "member". Also while person invited is member of Association named I have been careful to invite him not repeat not as representing that Association but as representing workers' interests and points of view throughout Union generally.

===== Page 32 =====
FROM MALAYAN UNION (Sir E. Gent)

TO S. OF S., COLONIES.

D. 23rd June, 1946.
R. 23rd "" 08.45 hrs.

IMMEDIATE
No. 477

Your telegram No. 743 of 20th June.

Composition of present Malayan Union Advisory Council is as follows:

(a) Governor, Chief Secretary, Attorney General, Financial Secretary

(b) 17 (repeat 17) non-officials - viz. 7 (repeat 7) Malays, 5 (repeat 5) Chinese, 2 (repeat 2) Indians, 2 (repeat 2) Europeans and 1 (repeat 1) Eurasian.

2. Unofficial Members are at present appointed to the Advisory Council by nomination of the Governor who makes his selections with the object of securing a membership which will be broadly representative of the principal interests and communities in Malaya. But Members are at present not representatives in a precise sense of particular organisations.

3. (a) 5 Malay members are themselves individually associated with United Malay National organisation but, as you are aware, none of the Malay Members of the Advisory Council have so far attended any Council meetings.

(b) 2 Members, one European and one Chinese, hold leading positions in U.P.A.M. and A.M.C.M.A. respectively.

===== Page 33 =====
(c) 10 Members are leading personages in business and professional life in different States and settlements, including one Malaya-born Chinese lady doctor, prominent in welfare work, and one Eurasian who has the confidence of various Eurasian associations throughout Malaya.

4. Since resumption of Civil Government I have been considering with Trade Union adviser how to secure labour representation. Trade Union movement has made considerable progress here since the liberation of Malaya, but dislocated economic conditions have so far tended to encourage formations of very local groups for local and limited immediate needs rather than broad-based unions of permanent character and capacity. Nevertheless, there are already certain unions which justify confidence in latter respects and I have just invited leading members of one of those, namely All-Malayan Estate Asiatic Staffs Association, to accept membership of the Advisory Council. There is no joint organisation at present such as T.U.C., but I hope this may develop so that some real system of Trade Union representation on local legislature may follow.

===== Page 34 =====
11th June, 1946.

MALAYAN UNION

NO: 33.

Sir,

I have the honour to forward herewith, for your information, three copies of a statement which I made at the Meeting of the Advisory Council this morning on the proposed establishment of an Executive Committee of the Council.

I have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your most obedient, humble servant,

GOVERNOR,
MALAYAN UNION.

The Right Honourable George Hall, P.C., M.P.,
Secretary of State for the Colonies,
Downing Street,
LONDON.

===== Page 35 =====
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

This Advisory Council is established under Part 9 of the Malayan Union Order-in-Council until such time as certain other parts of that Order are brought into operation which constitute, inter alia, Executive and Legislative Councils on the conclusion of the present transitional phase. The transitional provisions of the Order-in-Council do not include the constitution of an Executive Council but only the Advisory Council. It is, however, a sensible and satisfactory plan that we should adapt and develop the transitional provisions in practice in order that when the time comes to pass beyond the transitional phase we shall have a smooth changeover with machinery already in working order. We have already instituted, as Honourable Members know, a Finance Committee of this Advisory Council. I propose now that there should be instituted an Executive Committee which though it will strictly be extra-constitutional in the sense that it is not specifically provided for in the transitional provisions of the Order-in-Council, nevertheless I should hope that its purpose and functions would develop on the lines of the Executive Council for which eventual provision is made in Part 2 of the Order-in-Council.

This Council will appreciate that, in fact, so long as we are in the transitional phase under the Order-in-Council, the membership of an Executive Committee and such matters as their tenure of office would be matters not regulated by any constitutional provisions. I need not add, however, that the services of such a Committee in the Government, and I would like to say to myself personally in advising me on the exercise of my many executive responsibilities, would be invaluable.

I have accordingly asked three Honourable Members of the Council -

Mr. Doraisamy Iyer
Mr. Blunn
Dr. Ong Chong Keng

to accept the responsibility of membership of the Executive Committee and I am very grateful to them for consenting to do so. I have appointed also the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General and the Financial Secretary to be members of the Executive Committee.

King's House,
Kuala Lumpur.
10th June, 1946.

===== Page 36 =====
En Clair

TO (1) MALAYAN UNION AND
(2) SINGAPORE.

FROM S. OF S., COLONIES.

Sent 20th June, 1946, 17.15 hrs.

IMMEDIATE
(1) No. 743
(2) No. 494

Following question for oral reply in House of Commons on Wednesday 26th June has been put down by Mr. Skinnard, Labour M.P. for Harrow East: Begins.

To ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, what is the composition of present Malayan Advisory Council and how many of its members represent organised political bodies or trades unions. Ends.

2. Should be grateful if you would furnish me with material for reply by immediate telegram to reach me not later than Monday June 24th (repeat June 24th).

3. Similar telegram is being addressed to Governor Singapore.

3. Similar telegram is being addressed to Governor Malayan Union.

===== Page 37 =====
Cypher (O.T.P.)

FROM MALAYAN UNION (Sir E. Gent)

TO S. OF S., COLONIES.

D. 5th April, 1946.
R. 5th April, 1946, 16:15 hrs.

IMMEDIATE
No. 32 Confidential.

Reference your message conveyed in War Office telegram No. 52 589 C.A.1 dated 25th March.

Advisory Council held first meeting on the afternoon of 1st April when six Ordinances were enacted. Invitations were issued to 7 Malay, 5 Chinese, 2 European and 2 Indian Unofficial Members. One of the original Malays invited declined on political grounds and substitute selected at short notice did not reply. All the others accepted but, at the last minute and without withdrawing their acceptances, all (repeat all) Malay Members, acting in sympathy with the attitude adopted by the Sultans, absented themselves from the meeting of the Council. First meeting of the Advisory Council, therefore, consisted of Chief Secretary, Attorney General, Financial Secretary, 5 Unofficial Chinese, 2 Unofficial Europeans and 2 Unofficial Indians.

===== Page 38 =====
MALAYAN UNION
Colonial Office,
No. 3
2nd April, 1946.

CONFIDENTIAL

Sir,

I have the honour to refer to my despatch No. 2 of 2nd April, regarding the arrangements for the administration of the Malayan Union.

2. With regard to the Advisory Council referred to in paragraph 3 of my despatch under reference, I enclose for convenience of reference an extract from a recent telegram to the British Military Administration (Malaya), which contains your own views, as agreed with the Colonial Office, on the constitution of the Advisory Council and on the manner in which that Council should be used to lead the way to the introduction of the Executive and Legislative Councils in due course.

3. With reference to the arrangements for the establishment of the Legislative Council (paragraph 4 of my despatch under reference), you may find of interest the following extract from a memorandum prepared by Mr. Willan in the Malayan Planning Unit in March 1945. Mr. Willan's suggestions are not, of course, to be taken as more than a guide, but they should be useful to you in that they represent the result of close study and of consultation with the Colonial Office on the points involved.

"Legislative Council.

I assume that the unofficial members of the Legislative Council of the Union would be nominated because, in its present stage of development, the Malay Peninsula is unsuited to the electoral system.

Under the present constitution the Federal Council of the Federated Malay States consists of -

High Commissioner - President

Official Members.

Resident of Perak
Resident of Selangor
Resident of Negri Sembilan
Resident of Pahang
Federal Secretary
Legal Adviser
Financial Secretary
Secretary for Chinese Affairs
Controller of Labour
General Manager, F.M.S. Railways
Adviser on Agriculture

Governor,

SIR EDWARD CENT, K.C.M.C., D.S.C., O.B.E., M.C.,
etc., etc., etc.

===== Page 39 =====
Comptroller of Customs
Advisor on Education
Additional member (Advisor on Public Works).

Unofficial Members:

5 Europeans
4 Malays
2 Chinese
1 Indian

Hence, in addition to the Governor, there are at present fifteen official and twelve unofficial members of the Federal Council.

Under the new constitution, unofficial representation on Legislative Council should be on a population basis as far as possible. To this end, it is convenient to divide the Malay Peninsula into the following areas:

1. Kedah and Perlis
2. Penang and Province Wellesley
3. Perak
4. Selangor and Pahang
5. Negri Sembilan and Malacca
6. Johor
7. Kelantan and Trengganu

The estimated population of these areas, by race, as on 30th June, 1941, is:

Areas              Malays  Europeans  Eurasians  Chinese  Indians  Others  Total
1. Kedah & Perlis  387,735  674        151        116,672  62,025   16,051  583,308
2. Penang & Province Wellesley 119,913  2,833  2,682  230,679  60,503  2,437  419,047
3. Perak           335,385  4,113      1,590      450,197  196,056  5,350   992,691
4. Selangor & Pahang 281,236  5,606     2,831      413,632  210,730  9,317   923,352
5. Negri Sembilan & Malacca 217,912  2,029  3,346  217,931  87,552  3,326  532,096
6. Johor           302,104  1,264      352        308,901  58,498   4,178   675,297
7. Kelantan & Trengganu 555,836  262        57        40,319   9,000   8,250   613,724

It is clear from the above figures that for the areas mentioned the nominated unofficials, in every case, will be Malays and Chinese; therefore, some means must be evolved whereby adequate representation can be afforded to Europeans, Indians, and Eurasians. This could be done by fixing the total number of

===== Page 40 =====
Unofficial members of the Legislative Council at twenty-one, out of which fourteen members would be nominated to represent the above-mentioned areas on a population basis. The remaining seven unofficial members would be nominated to represent important interests throughout the Union, thereby affording a suitable method of securing adequate representation for European, Indian, and Eurasian interests.

There should be twenty-one official members of the Legislative Council, of whom five would be the official members of the Executive Council.

I have the honour to be,
Sir,
Your most obedient,
humble servant,

(sgd) G. E. Hall

===== Page 41 =====
OUTWARD TELEGRAM

This document must be paraphrased if the communication of its contents to any person outside Government Service is authorised.

50823/6/7/46

Cypher C.O. No. 611

TO B.M.A. (M).

FROM S. OF S., COLONIES.

Sent 27th February, 1946, 21.15 hrs. (to War Office for onward transmission)

Your 06008 Cipher of 12th February.

Following from Colonial Office.

1. Matter has been discussed with Governor Designate Malayan Union whose views agreed with Colonial Office are as follows:

(a) From start (repeat start) Advisory Council should be on as broadly representative basis as conditions (including transport conditions) allow.

(b) Even for initial meetings when essential legislation is being enacted Council should consist of ex-officio official members and not less than eleven unofficial members.

(c) Throughout its existence official membership of Advisory Council should be confined to those who will be ex-officio members of Legislative Council.

(d) The members of the Advisory Council should have the necessary documents, draft Bills, Agenda etc. before each meeting, and if any is unable to attend he should notify inability to attend and any advice he wishes to offer.

/e/ [POSSIBLY MISSING CONTENT]

===== Page 42 =====
(e) The Governor should use a small selected and easily available section of the Advisory Council as a confidential embryo Executive Council.

(f) Progressively, the Council should develop to the stage where it is likely to merge into the Legislative Council as gradually planned in the course of the local consultations to be completed by the Governor in accordance with paragraph 7 of Cmd.6724.

(g) Proceedings of Advisory Council (but not of embryo Executive Council) should be open to Press representatives.

(h) For purpose of consultations on eventual constitution of Executive and Legislative Councils, Governor should form special consultative conference to act as working party which should include:

(1) embryo executive Councillors

(2) limited (if possible) number of rest of Advisory Council

(3) two or three outside representatives.

Final agreement to be achieved by Governor-in-Advisory-Council.

(i) Suggested that Linehan should be detailed for special duty to assist Governor in planning details of arrangements for setting up Legislative Council including composition and method of selection of unofficial members, and for achieving progressive expansion of Advisory Council in consonance therewith. In this capacity he would act as Secretary General of Consultative Conference mentioned in (h).

===== Page 43 =====
2. Matter has not yet been discussed with Governor Designate Singapore, but the Colonial Office has no reason to suppose that he will wish to differ from views expressed above.

3. Memo of 1st February by D.C.C.A.O., Singapore, was discussed with Regester before views in paragraph 1 above had been considered. Objection was seen to composition of Advisory Council suggested in paragraph 4 of memo on grounds that Governor Designate has represented undesirability of unofficial majority in Legislative Council until position can be reviewed some time after Singapore has settled down under Civil Government. In order not to prejudice this issue, it was thought that there should not be unofficial majority on Advisory Council, and that best course would be to have equality.

4. Proposal in paragraph 1(c) above would, however, represent composition so radically different from any conceivable composition of Legislative Council as not to prejudice position.

5. On this basis suggested unofficial representation would seem suitable, though of course D.C.C.A.O. is at liberty to suggest any modifications which he may consider desirable.

6. Proposal by D.C.C.A.O. that Malayan Union citizenship should be a possible qualification for membership Singapore Legislative Council accepted and may therefore be reflected in membership of Advisory Council.

7. Copy of this telegram being sent to Governor Designate Singapore and further telegram will be sent when his views are known.

===== Page 44 =====
Sir,

I have the honour to enclose, for your information and guidance, a copy of Command Paper No. 6749 of March 1946, which sets out, in summarised form, the proposals of His Majesty's Government, as recently debated in Parliament, for the future administration of the Malayan Union and the Colony of Singapore.

2. This despatch is not concerned with the subject of Malayan Union Citizenship, to which the third section of the enclosed Command Paper is devoted. As regards the arrangements for the Malayan Union itself (which form the subject matter of the first section of the Command Paper), certain further modifications, in addition to a number which had already been made and of which the Command Paper takes account, were conceded by His Majesty's Government as a result of Parliamentary discussions, and these were announced by the Parliamentary Under Secretary of State for the Colonies in the House of Commons on the 18th of March, 1946. The relevant passage from the Under Secretary's statement reads as follows:

"First, the Council of Sultans, apart from exercising its religious functions, may discuss secular matters without the prior consent of the Governor, it being clearly understood that this Council, again apart from its religious functions, is a purely advisory body, which cannot legislate or enjoy executive functions.

Secondly, the Sultans' Advisory Councils which will be set up in each State will be empowered to advise the Sultans not only on all matters which affect Muhammadan religion in the State, but on other matters on which the Sultan in his discretion may seek their advice.

Thirdly, the Governor, who is to consult with local opinion concerning the numbers of members and details of representation on the State Councils, will be directed to ensure that one member of each of these Councils shall be a nominee of the Sultan. It will be the duty of this nominee to keep the Sultan informed of State Council proceedings, and to express on the Council any points which the Sultan may particularly wish to make.

Fourthly, the Royal Instructions to the Governor of the Malayan Union will include special instructions to the effect that he must not, without the prior approval of the Secretary of State, assent to any Bills likely to evoke racial or religious discrimination."

GOVERNOR,

SIR EDWARD GENT, K.C.M.G., D.S.O., C.D.E., M.C.,
etc., etc., etc.

===== Page 45 =====
3. As regards the fourth of these points, appropriate provisions have now been included in the Royal Instructions. The third point will be mentioned again in a later paragraph of this despatch. The second point has been provided for in the Malayan Union Order in Council, as has the first. These four points, together with Command Paper No. 6749, may be taken as describing the arrangements for the establishment of the Malayan Union in their final form. It will be observed, however, that these arrangements provide for a certain delay in the setting up of some of the organs of Government, and for preparatory consultations by yourself, in the light of which the exact constitution of these organisations will be decided. I would invite your particular attention to paragraph 11 of the Command Paper, which provides that, pending the constitution of the Executive and Legislative Councils, you may make laws in consultation with an Advisory Council, consisting of the Chief Secretary, the Attorney General, the Financial Secretary, and such other persons as you may appoint, and which indicates that this Advisory Council should be selected on a basis as broadly representative as conditions in this phase allow. Steps have already been taken to establish the Council on an initial basis. It remains now to develop its membership and functions on the lines already agreed with you before you left this country, and to initiate at once, with its assistance, the necessary local consultations with a view to the formal institution of the Executive and Legislative Councils with the minimum of delay.

4. As regards the actual constitution of the Executive and Legislative Councils, I would invite your attention to paragraph 4 and paragraph 6 (a) of Command Paper No. 6749 respectively. You will note that the numbers of official and unofficial members on the Legislative Council, as given in paragraph 6 (a) of the Command Paper, are stated as maxima, since it is intended that the final determination of numbers, as well as the basis for representation on the Council of territorial areas in Malaya (having regard to the racial constitution of the population in those areas), will not be decided until you have had full opportunity to consult local opinion. It should be borne in mind from the outset, however, that one seat on the Legislative Council is to be reserved for a representative of the Fighting Services.

5. I would further invite your attention to paragraph 9 (a) and (b) of Command Paper No. 6749 which deal with the constitution and functions of State and Settlement Councils. As regards the constitution of these Councils, it is desirable that you should proceed as rapidly as possible with the necessary consultations with local opinion, bearing in mind the third of the four points made by the Parliamentary Under Secretary (see paragraph 2 above). As regards the functions of the Councils, you should also take steps to consult local opinion, but in this matter it is proposed that you should have the special assistance of an expert on local government sent from this country for the purpose. The expert in question will be a person with experience of local government law and practice in the United Kingdom, who will help you in formulating arrangements as between the Union Government, the State and Settlement Councils and the various local bodies (Sanitary Boards etc.) and in discussing these matters with the persons and bodies concerned.

===== Page 46 =====
6. As soon as you have completed the necessary local consultations on the several matters indicated above, I should be grateful if you would furnish me with your recommendations. In considering all matters connected with the constitution of the Legislative Council, and with the constitution and functions of the State and Settlement Councils, you should bear in mind that, whilst the time has not yet come for full representative Government in Malaysia, His Majesty's Government attach the utmost importance to the most rapid development that is possible, both at the centre and in the outlying districts, of a sound and broad-based system of Government on progressively democratic lines.

I have the honour to be,

Sir,
Your most obedient,
humble servant,

(mgd) C. H. Hall

===== Page 47 =====
CIPHER TELEGRAM

This message will not be distributed outside British Government Departments or Headquarters or re-transmitted, even in cipher, without being paraphrased. (Messages marked O.T.P. need not be paraphrased).

C.O. No. 819

From: War Office
To: B.M.A.(M)
Info: SACSEA
Replace Singapore
52589 cipher (C.A.1)
25 Mar. 46. SECRET

Your 4864 cipher 18 Mar.

Advisory Council.

Following from Colonial Office after discussion with Governor designate.

Begins.

Your one. We feel that in present circumstances very desirable that representation of Malaya should be numerically greater than Chinese. The number of Malays should accordingly be increased to seven, the others remaining as proposed by you.

Your three. Noted.

Your four. Proceedings should be in English.

C.6.(Tels.) Ends.

Copies to:-

D.C.A.
D.D.C.A.(M.G.)(3)
M.O.1, 12
M.I.2, 17(2)
Colonial Office (Mr. Paskin)
(Tels C.D. Miss Barnett)(15)

===== Page 48 =====
OUTWARD TELEGRAM

C.O. No. 819.

TO B.M.A. (M)

FROM S. OF S., COLONIES.

Sent 23rd March, 1946, 13.15 hrs. (to War Office for onward transmission)

IMMEDIATE

Your 4864 cypher of 18th March.

Advisory Council.

Following from Colonial Office after discussion with Governor designate.

Your one. We feel that in present circumstances it is very desirable that representation of Malays should be numerically greater than Chinese. The number of Malays should accordingly be increased to seven, the others remaining as proposed by you.

Your three. Noted.

Your four. Proceedings should be in English.

===== Page 49 =====
C. O.

Mr. Passin 28/3 above

Mr.

Mr.

Mr.

Mr.

Permit. U.S. of S.

Parly. U.S. of S.

Secretary of State.

6.0 no 819

DRAFT. Tel.

BRAIT)

V. C. A. (11)

FURTHER ACTION.

V. M. M.

===== Page 50 =====
INWARD TELEGRAM

This document must be paraphrased if the communication of its contents to any person outside Government Service is authorised.

Cypher

FROM HEADQUARTERS B.M.A.(M)

TO S. OF S., COLONIES.

D. 18th March, 1946.
R. 19th March 1946, 08.00 hrs.
(Via War Office)

IMMEDIATE
No. 4864 Cipher 18th March. SECRET.

Addressed to War Office.
Repeated to S.A.C.S.E.A.
Repeated to Replace Singapore.
Repeated to B.M.A.(M) Singapore Division.

For Colonial Office.

Your 99552(CA1).

Advisory Council.

After discussions here, suggest fourteen Unofficials: five Malays, five Chinese, two Indians and two Europeans.

2. This will allow broad representative basis first stage.

3. Consider only three officials your paragraph 2(c) unbalanced but will discuss with Governor after his arrival.

4. Have assumed proceedings will be in English. This excludes very suitable Chinese from Perak, who would balance Chinese representation. His appointment would require interpretation in Council with consequent drawbacks. From the beginning, assume we should select English speaking Members only.

===== Page 51 =====
CIPHER TELEGRAM

This message will not be distributed outside British Government Departments or Headquarters or re-transmitted, even in cipher, without being paraphrased.

(Messages marked O.T.P. need not be paraphrased.)

C.O. No. 611
Desp. 020880 Mar '46
D.T.0.011120/Z.

FROM: WAR OFFICE
TO: B.M.A (M)
INFO: S.A.C.S.E.A.
REPLACE SINGAPORE
99552
cipher C.A.1 Mar. 46 RESTRICTED
Following from Colonial Office. Begins.

ONE. Your 06008 Cipher of 12 Feb.

TWO. Matter has been discussed with Governor Designate Malayan Union whose views agreed with Colonial Office are as follows:

(a) From start (repeat start) Advisory Council should be on as broadly representative basis as conditions (including transport conditions) allow.

(b) Even for initial meetings when essential legislation is being enacted Council should consist of ex-officio official members and not less than eleven unofficial members.

(c) Throughout its existence official membership of Advisory Council should be confined to those who will be ex-officio members of Legislative Council.

(d) The members of the Advisory Council should have the necessary documents, draft Bills, Agenda etc. before each meeting, and if any is unable to attend he should notify inability to attend and any advice he wishes to offer.

===== Page 52 =====
(e) The Governor should use a small selected and easily available section of the Advisory Council as a confidential embryo Executive Council.

(f) Progressively, the Council should develop to the stage where it is likely to merge into the Legislative Council as gradually planned in the course of the local consultations to be completed by the Governor in accordance with paragraph 7 of Cmd. 6724.

(g) Proceedings of Advisory Council (but not of embryo Executive Council) should be open to Press representatives.

(h) For the purpose of consultations on eventual constitution of Executive and Legislative Councils, the Governor should form a special consultative conference to act as a working party which should include:

(1) embryo executive Councillors

(2) limited (if possible) number of rest of Advisory Council

(3) two or three outside representatives.

Final agreement to be achieved by Governor-in-Advisory-Council.

(i) Suggested that Linehan should be detailed for special duty to assist Governor in planning details of arrangements for setting up Legislative Council including composition and method of selection of unofficial members, and for achieving progressive expansion of Advisory Council in consonance therewith. In this capacity, he would act as Secretary General of Consultative Conference mentioned in (h).

/THREE.

===== Page 53 =====
THREE. Matter has not yet been discussed with Governor Designate Singapore but Colonial Office have no reason to suppose that he will wish to differ from views expressed above.

FOUR. Memo of 1 Feb by D.C.C.A.O., Singapore, was discussed with Regester before views in paragraph TWO above had been considered. Objection was seen to composition of Advisory Council suggested in paragraph 4 of memo on grounds that Governor Designate has represented undesirability of unofficial majority in Legislative Council until position can be reviewed some time after Singapore has settled down under Civil Government. In order not to prejudice this issue it was thought that there should not be unofficial majority on Advisory Council, and that best course would be to have equality.

FIVE. Proposal in paragraph TWO (c) above would however represent composition so radically different from any conceivable composition of Legislative Council as not to prejudice position.

SIX. On this basis suggested unofficial representation would seem suitable though of course D.C.C.A.O. is at liberty to suggest any modifications which he may consider desirable.

SEVEN. Proposal by D.C.C.A.O. that Malayan Union citizenship should be a possible qualification for membership of Singapore Legislative Council accepted and may therefore be reflected in membership of Advisory Council.

EIGHT. Copy this telegram being sent to Governor Designate Singapore and further telegram will be sent when.

===== Page 54 =====
Sent when his views known.

C.6. (Tels.)

Ends.

Copies to:
- D.C.A.
- D.D.C.A (M.G.) (3)
- C.A.1 (6)
- M.C.1, 12.
- M.I.2, 17.
- Colonial Office (Mr. Paskin)
- (Tels. C.D. Miss Barnett)
- (15).

===== Page 55 =====
OUTWARD TELEGRAM

This document must be paraphrased if the communication of its contents to any person outside Government Service is authorised.

50823/6/7/46
Cypher
C.O. No. 611

TO B.M.A. (M).

FROM S. OF S., COLONIES.

Sent 27th February, 1946, 21.15 hrs. (to War Office for onward transmission)

Your 06008 Cipher of 12th February.

Following from Colonial Office.

1. Matter has been discussed with Governor Designate Malayan Union whose views agreed with Colonial Office are as follows:

(a) From start (repeat start) Advisory Council should be on as broadly representative basis as conditions (including transport conditions) allow.

(b) Even for initial meetings when essential legislation is being enacted Council should consist of ex-officio official members and not less than eleven unofficial members.

(c) Throughout its existence official membership of Advisory Council should be confined to those who will be ex-officio members of Legislative Council.

(d) The members of the Advisory Council should have the necessary documents, draft Bills, Agenda etc. before each meeting, and if any is unable to attend he should notify inability to attend and any advice he wishes to offer.

/e/ [POSSIBLY MISSING]

===== Page 56 =====
(e) The Governor should use a small selected and easily available section of the Advisory Council as a confidential embryo Executive Council.

(f) Progressively the Council should develop to the stage where it is likely to merge into the Legislative Council as gradually planned in the course of the local consultations to be completed by the Governor in accordance with paragraph 7 of Cmd. 6724.

(g) Proceedings of Advisory Council (but not of embryo Executive Council) should be open to Press representatives.

(h) For purpose of consultations on eventual constitution of Executive and Legislative Councils, Governor should form special consultative conference to act as working party which should include:

(1) embryo executive Councillors

(2) limited (if possible) number of rest of Advisory Council

(3) two or three outside representatives.

Final agreement to be achieved by Governor-in-Advisory-Council.

(i) Suggested that Linehan should be detailed for special duty to assist Governor in planning details of arrangements for setting up Legislative Council including composition and method of selection of unofficial members, and for achieving progressive expansion of Advisory Council in consonance therewith. In this capacity he would act as Secretary General of Consultative Conference mentioned in (h).

===== Page 57 =====
2. Matter has not yet been discussed with Governor Designate Singapore but Colonial Office have no reason to suppose that he will wish to differ from views expressed above.

3. Memo of 1st February by D.C.C.A.O., Singapore, was discussed with Regester before views in paragraph 1 above had been considered. Objection was seen to composition of Advisory Council suggested in paragraph 4 of memo on grounds that Governor Designate has represented undesirability of unofficial majority in Legislative Council until position can be reviewed some time after Singapore has settled down under Civil Government. In order not to prejudice this issue it was thought that there should not be unofficial majority on Advisory Council, and that best course would be to have equality.

4. Proposal in paragraph 1(c) above would however represent composition so radically different from any conceivable composition of Legislative Council as not to prejudice position.

5. On this basis suggested unofficial representation would seem suitable though of course D.C.C.A.O. is at liberty to suggest any modifications which he may consider desirable.

6. Proposal by D.C.C.A.O. that Malayan Union citizenship should be a possible qualification for membership Singapore Legislative Council accepted and may therefore be reflected in membership of Advisory Council.

7. Copy this telegram being sent to Governor Designate Singapore and further telegram will be sent when his views known.

===== Page 58 =====
C.O.

Mr. Paskin 22/2/46.
Mr. S. E. Gent 23
Mr. Lloyd 37
Mr.

Permit. U.S. of S. 26.2
Parly. U.S. of S.
Secretary of State.

DRAFT TELEGRAM

B.M.A. (M)
Via C.A. (1) War Office.

Your 06008 Cipher of 12th February
Following from Colonial Office.

ONE. Matter has been discussed with Governor Designate Malayan Union whose views agreed with Colonial Office are as follows:

(a) From start (repeat start) Advisory Council should be on as broadly representative basis as conditions (including transport conditions) allow.

(b) Even for initial meetings when essential legislation is being enacted Council should consist of ex-officio official and not less than eleven unofficial members.

(c) Throughout its existence official membership of Advisory Council should be confined to those who will be ex-officio members of Legislative Council.

(d) The members of the Advisory Council should have the necessary documents, draft Bills, Agenda etc. before each meeting, and if/can't attend, we /should

===== Page 59 =====
(e) The Governor should use a small selected and easily available section of the Advisory Council as a confidential embryo Executive Council.

(f) Progressively, the Council should develop to the stage where it is likely to merge into the Legislative Council as gradually planned in the course of the local consultations to be completed by the Governor in accompaniment with para. 7 of Cmd 6724.

(g) Proceedings of Advisory Council (but not of embryo Executive Council) should be open to Press representatives.

(h) For purposes of consultations on eventual constitution of Executive and Legislative Councils, the Governor should form a special consultative conference which should include (1) embryo Executive Councillors, (2) limited (if possible) members of the rest of the Advisory Council, (3) two or three outside representatives. Final agreement to be achieved by Governor-in-Advisory-Council.

(i) Suggested that LINEHAN should be detailed for special duty to assist Governor in planning details of arrangements for setting up Legislative Council including composition and method of selection of unofficial members, and for achieving progressive expansion of Advisory Council in consonance therewith. In this capacity, he would act as Secretary General of Consultative Conference mentioned in (k).

2. Matter has not yet been discussed with Governor Designate Singapore but Colonial Office have no reason to suppose that he will wish to share views expressed above. Suitable officer selected for duties under para 1(i) might also be charged with the duty of assisting with re-establishment of Municipal Commission.

3. Memo of 1st February by D.C.C.A.O., Singapore was discussed with REGESTER before views in para 1 above had been considered.

===== Page 60 =====
Considered. Objection was seen to the composition of the Advisory Council suggested in para. 4 of the memo on grounds that the Governor Designate has represented the undesirability of unofficial majority in the Legislative Council until the position can be reviewed some time after Singapore has settled down under Civil Government. In order not to prejudice this issue, it was thought that there should not be an unofficial majority on the Advisory Council, and that the best course would be to have equality.

FOUR. Proposal in para. 1(c) above would, however, represent a composition so radically different from any conceivable composition of the Legislative Council as not to prejudice the position.

FIVE. On this basis, the suggested unofficial representation would seem suitable, though of course D.C.C.A.O. is at liberty to suggest any modifications which they may consider desirable.

SIX. Proposal by D.C.C.A.O. that Malayan Union citizenship should be a possible qualification for membership in the Singapore Legislative Council accepted and may therefore be reflected in membership of the Advisory Council.

SEVEN. Copy of this telegram being sent to Governor Designate Singapore and a further telegram will be sent when his views are known.

===== Page 61 =====
INWARD TELEGRAM

This document must be paraphrased if the communication of its contents to any person outside Government Service is authorised.

Cypher

COPY FOR REGISTRATION

FROM B.M.A. (M), KUALA LUMPUR. (Via ALFSEA).

TO S. OF S., COLONIES.

D. 12th February, 1946.
R. 14th " 08.00 hrs.
(via War Office).

IMMEDIATE

06008 BMA(M) cipher 12th February Secret.

Pass to Colonial Office from B.M.A. (M).

1. Reference telegram 07291 dated 4th February paragraph 1(C) Constitution of Advisory Council Malayan Union. In discussions here several divergent views have been expressed. It is generally agreed that eventual form of Advisory Council will have to be as broadly representative as possible (wide White Paper), but difficulty arises over functioning of this Advisory Council in initial phase. This very largely depends on intentions of Governor Designate regarding how he proposes to use this Council. There will inevitably be considerable amount of Legislation which, according to White Paper, the Governor enacts "With the help of Advisory Council" but it is possible that he may wish to extend scope of Council beyond assistance in Legislation.

2. There are three alternatives for composition of Council:

A. First alternative is to invite sufficient number of persons to give broad representation of the various interests throughout country. This would undoubtedly stifle a lot of criticism as to our intentions, but in view of present difficulties of travel, members from places as far afield as Penang, etc. would find it difficult to attend frequent meetings. If Representatives from more remote places do not (repeat not) attend all Meetings, this may easily cause resentment.

===== Page 62 =====
B. Second alternative is to begin by appointing an initial small Council of say six to eight officials and unofficials, to which the Governor could add as soon as he has made up his mind after local consultations. The difficulty here is that such small numbers cannot give representation adequately covering the communities and their importance.

C. Third alternative is to appoint, for initial purposes, a small Council consisting solely of Officials. The initial requirement will be to enact legislation which is not open to question or debate, e.g., act of indemnity. After completing this initial task, the Council would be expanded by inclusion of unofficial members. The advantage of this alternative is that it would enable the Governor to decide the composition of the Advisory Council after discussion here and in accordance with his requirements.

5. After discussion, Newboult and McKerron consider the third alternative offers the least objection for Singapore as well as for Malayan Union. They should be glad to receive instructions.

===== Page 63 =====
The image provided is too blurry and low-resolution to accurately recognize any text. It appears to be a blank or very faint page with no visible content.

===== Page 64 =====
Future Policy in Malaya. Composition of Governor's Advisory Council. 1946. MS Records of the British Colonial Office CO 273/675/15. The National Archives (Kew, United Kingdom). State Papers Online Colonial, link.gale.com/apps/doc/UGMYXU383412122/SPOC?u=nuslib&sid=bookmark-SPOC&xid=5834d387. Accessed 1 Mar. 2026.

Gale Document Number: GALE|UGMYXU383412122

