===== Page 1 =====
1940
STRAITS

PETITION
60273/660/8
MESSRS. ARKAFE AND COY.

Prevision
50294
37

Subsequent

R. 83
18/7
Mr. Buckle
22/7
Mr. Manson
23/7
Sir Grafton Burke
14/8
in 'Gent
15-
Sir A. Brown
15/8
Mr. Holl
10/7
R. Dickle
17
29/5 (2)
93.

PUT BY

===== Page 2 =====
50007

MAPS/PLANS RECORDED

===== Page 3 =====
The petition 91-5 rather elaborated in my notice that the desirability towards this petition contains no reference to the correspondence in 50294/36.

The papers should go to Sir G. Burshe, who dealt with the correspondence of the case, for consideration as to the reply.

Lord Burshe
22.7.40

The answer to this petition must be there in the legal point in the first sentence of frame 4 of the O.A.C.'s dispatch. This dispatch puts the case in a Mitchell and, speaking for a layman, I would agree with Mr. Gusuch's conclusions in frame 9 and 10 of the second enclosure.

Lady will give 4 / A.
AHB 14/8

This is a petition on behalf of certain Arab large property owners for the revocation of an order made by the Governor in Council for a layout of a new street in Singapore which they consider adversely affects their property and its future development.

The Singapore Improvement Trust, which is

===== Page 4 =====
A public body statutorily entrusted with the task of physical improvements (slum clearing, etc.) of the city of Singapore, has secured from the Governor in Council an order to construct a "back lane" for which they will acquire certain portions of the petitioners' properties (as of course frequently occurs in town planning and street construction). The present order has only been made by the Governor in Council following upon public enquiry as usual, together with opportunities for all the property owners concerned to make their representations on the proposed scheme, and there is no reason to suppose that any alternative scheme favoured by the petitioners as accruing more to their advantage would be in the public interest. Decline to intervene.

(The Arab property owners in this case - the Alkaff family - are the wealthy Hadramaut Sayyids with whom we are familiar in the Kathiri Sultan's territory.)

15.8.40.

2. 10 S.S. No. 238 (1 Aug) 20 AUG 1940

===== Page 5 =====
My Lord,

I have the honour to transmit a petition from Messrs. Alkaff and Company who are agents in Singapore for certain property owners resident in Hadramut, praying that directions be given to the Governor in Council to revoke an order made under the terms of Section 148 of the Municipal Ordinance (Chapter 133 of the Revised Edition of the Laws of the Straits Settlements).

2. The facts of the case which are fully and fairly set out in the petition, are briefly that on the 7th November 1934, an order was made by the Governor in Council to determine the site of a back-lane through certain properties managed by the petitioners. That order was based on an enquiry held by the Commissioner of Lands, and was subsequently quashed by the Court of Appeal, on a writ of certiorari, on the 9th August 1937, on the grounds that the Commissioner, being himself a member of the Singapore Improvement Trust on whose behalf the application for the laying out of the back-lane was first made, was disqualified from acting in the capacity of enquiry officer by reason of the suspicion of legal bias. The Trust renewed its application for permission to lay out a back-lane and after a second enquiry, the Governor in Council on the 7th September 1938, by a majority decision ordered that a back-lane be made which was in fact identical with that to be made under the original order. A copy of the report of the second enquiry is appended.

3. During the hearing of the case against the Governor in Council, the Court held that the order of the Governor in Council was a quasi-judicial act and there appears to be no doubt that the solicitors of the petitioners are of the opinion that it would be useless for them again to obtain a rule nisi for certiorari and they have accordingly drawn up this petition.

4. I am advised that since the order in question is a quasi-judicial act, the request that directions should be given to the Governor in Council to revoke it and substitute another order in its place cannot be entertained. The case for the petitioners has its merits but the application of the Singapore Improvement Trust which was approved in the order, conforms to the normal lay-outs in the Town of Singapore, and as it was supported in turn by two Enquiry Officers I am unable to recommend that any action should be taken to induce the Governor in Council to reconsider his order.

I have the honour to be,
My Lord,
Your Lordship's most obedient,
humble servant,

The Right Honourable
Lord Lloyd of Dolobran, P.C.,
etc., etc., etc.,
COLONIAL OFFICE.

===== Page 6 =====
-: PETITION :-

of ALKAFF & COMPANY of No. 70, The Arcade, Singapore, the Agents of Syed Aboobakar bin Shaikh Alkaff of Sahoon Hadramout, Syed Abdulrahman bin Shaikh Alkaff, Syed Omar bin Shaikh Alkaff, Syed Abdulgader bin Shaikh Alkaff and Syed Hassan bin Shaikh Alkaff all of Tarim, Hadramout, the Trustees of a Settlement dated the 6th day of March, 1924 with reference to a Back Lane Scheme affecting property at Anson Road, Singapore.

A.C.

Sisson & Delay,
Singapore.

===== Page 7 =====
THE HUMBLE PETITION of ALKAFF & COMPANY of No. 70, The Arcade, Singapore, in the British Crown Colony of the Straits Settlements, the Agents of SYED ABOOBAKAR BIN SHAIKH ALKAFF of Sahoon Hadramout, SYED ABDULRAHMAN BIN SHAIKH ALKAFF, SYED OMAR BIN SHAIKH ALKAFF, SYED ABDULGADER BIN SHAIKH ALKAFF and SYED HASSAN BIN SHAIKH ALKAFF, all of Tarim, Hadramout, the Trustees of a Settlement dated the 6th day of March, 1924,

SHEWETH as follows:

1. The abovenamed Syed Aboobakar bin Shaikh Alkaff, Syed Abdulrahman bin Shaikh Alkaff, Syed Omar bin Shaikh Alkaff, Syed Abdulgader bin Shaikh Alkaff and Syed Hassan bin Shaikh Alkaff are the Trustees of a Settlement made on the 6th March, 1924, by which the property (hereinafter referred to as "the Anson Road Property") described as Lot 159 of Town Subdivision XXIII, Singapore, together with the houses erected thereon and formerly known as Municipal Nos. 94 to 100 (both inclusive) but now known as Nos. 157, 157A, 159, 159A, 161, 163, 165, 167 and 169 Anson Road, Singapore, Nos. 1, 2 and 3 Trafalgar Street, Singapore, and Nos. 3, 5 and 7 Selangor Street, Singapore was conveyed to them Upon Trust for certain charitable purposes.

2. The Petitioners, the Firm of Alkaff & Company of No. 70, The Arcade, Singapore, are the Agents of the Trustees referred to in Paragraph 1 hereof and are the Owners within the meaning of Section 3 of the Municipal Ordinance (Chapter 133) (hereinafter referred to as "the Municipal Ordinance") of the Anson Road Property.

===== Page 8 =====
All freehold property edged purple

S D L Langdon Williams

F.R.I.B.A., F.S.I., M.T.P.I., M.I. Struct. E

Manager

Singapore Improvement Trust

===== Page 9 =====
3. On or about the 26th April 1934, the Singapore Improvement Trust (hereinafter referred to as "the Trust"), a statutory corporation constituted by Section 4 of the Singapore Improvement Ordinance of 1927 (which Ordinance is now Chapter 134 and is hereinafter referred to as "the Improvement Ordinance"), acting under the provisions of Section 148 of the Municipal Ordinance, and Section 2(3) of the Improvement Ordinance, requested the Governor in Council of the Straits Settlements to order that backlanes affecting the Anson Road Property should be laid out and that certain portions of the Anson Road Property might be acquired for the purposes of such backlanes. The sites of the Back Lanes proposed by the Trust and those portions of the Anson Road Property sought to be acquired by the Trust for the purposes of such Back Lanes are shown coloured Pink in the Plan annexed hereto marked A.

4. The Governor in Council thereafter appointed Mr. W. S. Ebden (hereinafter referred to as "the First Commissioner"), who was then the Commissioner of Lands, Singapore, and also a Member of the Trust, to enquire into and report on the case.

5. On or about the 27th June 1934, the First Commissioner wrote to the Owners informing them of the Trust's proposal to lay out backlanes affecting the Anson Road Property and enquiring if they had any objection thereto. A copy of this letter appears in the copy correspondence exhibited to the affidavit of Shaikh Yahya bin Ahmad Afifi (the General Manager of the business of the Petitioners) of the 13th May 1935 hereinafter referred to, and a copy whereof accompanies this Petition.

6. In reply to the said letter, the Owners on the 29th June 1934 wrote to the First Commissioner a letter, a copy

===== Page 10 =====
of the material parts of which appears in the Exhibit W.S.E.3(a) (hereinafter referred to as "the said Exhibit") to the Affidavit of the First Commissioner of the 20th May 1936 hereinafter referred to and a copy of which accompanies this Petition, suggesting as an alternative a back-lane other than those proposed by the Trust. The site of the back-lane so proposed by the Owners is shown coloured blue in the said Plan annexed hereto marked A.

7. The Back Lane suggested by the Owners did not commend itself to the Trust and on the 17th July 1934 the Manager of the Trust (hereinafter referred to as "the Manager") so informed the First Commissioner who on the 19th July 1934 recommended to the Governor that the order applied for by the Trust as related in Paragraph 3 supra should be made.

8. On the 20th July 1934 the Owners being ignorant of the recommendation made to the Governor by the First Commissioner as recited in the last preceding paragraph hereof wrote to the First Commissioner the letter (a copy of the material parts of which appears in the said Exhibit) asking for a day and time to be appointed at which they could appear to support their objections to the Back Lanes proposed by the Trust and on 25th July the First Commissioner wrote to the Colonial Secretary of the Straits Settlements (see the said Exhibit) reporting that he did not propose to comply with the Owners' request as he did not consider that there was any reason for him to alter the recommendation made by him on the 19th July as above mentioned.

9. The First Commissioner however subsequently changed his mind (see the said Exhibit) and on 3rd August 1934 he commenced to hold an enquiry as to the proposed backlanes. Such enquiry was attended by the Manager, and a member of the firm of Braddell Brothers the Solicitors to the Trust,

===== Page 11 =====
On behalf of the Trust, and by the said Shaikh Yahya bin Ahamad Afifi, the General Manager of the business of the Owners (hereinafter referred to as "Shaikh Afifi"), Mr. F.W. Brewer the Owners' architect, and Member of the firm of Sisson & Delay, the Owners' Solicitors, on behalf of the Owners, and a précis of the Owners' objections to the Scheme proposed by the Trust and their suggestions as then formulated appears in the said Exhibit. However, as a result of a suggestion made by the First Commissioner during the progress of the said enquiry that adjoining owners might be interested in acquiring from the Owners a portion of the Anson Road Property, the proceedings were adjourned for the purpose of ascertaining whether such adjoining owners wished to acquire such portion.

10. On the 21st August 1934, Messrs. Sisson & Delay wrote to the First Commissioner a letter (a copy of the material portions of which appears in the said Exhibit) recapitulating the objections raised on behalf of the Owners at the enquiry held on the 3rd August 1934, and requesting that the enquiry might be proceeded with if the adjoining owners, who were thought to be desirous of acquiring a portion of the Anson Road Property, should fail to make an offer for it. Such adjoining owners did not desire to acquire any portion of the Anson Road Property, and on the 14th September 1934, the First Commissioner, having learned that they did not do so, saw a Member of the firm of Messrs. Sisson & Delay and informed him that he intended to report to the Governor in Council recommending that the backlanes proposed by the Trust should be laid out. On the said 14th September 1934, the First Commissioner did in fact make such recommendation, and a copy thereof appears in the said Exhibit.

11. On the said 14th September 1934, Messrs. Sisson & Delay

===== Page 12 =====
Had understood from the First Commissioner that his report to the Governor in Council was about to be made but had not then been made, and subsequent to the interview on that day between the First Commissioner and their representative, correspondence passed between them, between the First Commissioner and the Manager, and between them and the Chairman of the Trust with reference to the proposed back lanes. Particulars of the letters forming such correspondence are as follows:

15th Sept 1934 - Letter from Sisson & Delay to the First Commissioner.
15th Sept 1934 - Letter from Sisson & Delay to the Manager.

19th Sept 1934 - Letter from Sisson & Delay to the First Commissioner.
20th Sept 1934 - Letter from the Manager to Sisson & Delay.

24th Sept 1934 - Letter from Sisson & Delay to the First Commissioner.
24th Sept 1934 - Letters (2) from Sisson & Delay to the Manager.

25th Sept 1934 - Letter from the Manager to Sisson & Delay.
25th Sept 1934 - Letter from Sisson & Delay to the Manager.

27th Sept 1934 - Letter from the Manager to Sisson & Delay.
28th Sept 1934 - Letter from the Manager to Sisson & Delay.

1st Oct 1934 - Letters (2) from Sisson & Delay to the Manager.

12th Oct 1934 - Letter from the Chairman of the Trust to Sisson & Delay.
13th Oct 1934 - Letter from Sisson & Delay to the Chairman of the Trust.

Copies of all such letters appear in the copy correspondence exhibited to the said Affidavit of Shaikh Afifi of the 13th May 1935 hereinafter referred to, and a copy whereof accompanies this Petition.

12. On the 7th November 1934, the Governor in Council ordered that back lanes affecting the Anson Road Property should be laid out and that certain land, i.e., the land shown coloured pink in the said plan attached hereto and marked A, should be acquired by the Trust for the purpose of the back lanes. Such Order was published in the Straits Settlements Government Gazette of the 16th November 1934.

===== Page 13 =====
being Gazette Notification No.2614, a copy of which appears in the exhibit to the said Affidavit of Shaikh Afifi of the 13th May 1935, hereinafter referred to.

13. On the 14th December 1934, the said Order of the Governor in Council was registered in the Registry of Deeds at Singapore under Ordinance No.148 (Registration of Deeds) in Volume 865 Nos.114 and 115.

14. On the 11th June 1935, in proceedings commenced on behalf of the Owners by Originating Summons No.14 of 1935 in the High Court of the Straits Settlements at the Settlement of Singapore, Mr. Justice Terrell, a judge of the said High Court, ordered inter alia that Sir Andrew Caldecott should show cause why inter alia the Order of the Governor in Council made on the 7th November 1934 (the Order referred to in Paragraph 12 supra) should not be removed into the said High Court and quashed on the ground that such Order was ultra vires and made in contravention of the provisions of the Municipal Ordinance and of the Improvement Ordinance by reason of the several facts more particularly set out in the Motion Paper upon which the application for the Order made by Mr. Justice Terrell had been based.

15. The proceedings referred to in Paragraph 14 supra came on for hearing in September and October 1936 as related in the paragraph next following and in such proceedings the principal evidence consisted of two affidavits of Shaikh Afifi dated respectively the 13th May 1935 and the 8th August 1936 and the exhibits therein referred to, an affidavit of the First Commissioner dated the 20th May 1936 and the Exhibit (herein referred to as "the said Exhibit") W.S.E.3(a) therein referred to, and an affidavit of the Manager dated the 3rd June 1936 and the Exhibits "L.L.W.No.2" and "L.L.W.No.3" therein referred to. Copies of the relevant portions of such Affidavits and Exhibits accompany this Petition.

===== Page 14 =====
16. The application to show cause came on for hearing before Mr. Justice Whitley on the 29th September and in the early part of October 1936, and on the 15th December 1936, Mr. Justice Whitley discharged the Rule with costs.

17. On the 30th December 1936, the Owners' Solicitors gave Notice of Appeal to the Court of Appeal; the Memorandum of Appeal containing the Grounds of Appeal was filed on or about the 22nd May 1937, and the Appeal was heard on the 21st, 22nd, 23rd, 24th, and 25th June 1937 before Mr. Justice Terrell, Acting Chief Justice, Sir Samuel Joyce Thomas, Chief Justice of the Federated Malay States, and Mr. Justice Howes, and judgment was then reserved, but on the 9th August 1937, judgment was delivered by the Court of Appeal allowing the Appeal and ordering that a Writ of Certiorari should issue to remove into the Supreme Court of the Straits Settlements at the Settlement of Singapore to be quashed (amongst other Orders) the Order of the Governor in Council of the 7th November 1934 recited in Paragraph 12 supra.

18. Shortly after the delivery of the judgment of the Court of Appeal on the 9th August 1937 referred to in Paragraph 17 hereof, the Owners gave instructions to their architect Mr. Brewer to prepare plans for the improvement of the Anson Road Houses by providing them with kitchens, bathrooms, and water closets, and by also providing the said houses with open spaces at the rear thereof, which latter provisions would have involved the demolition of the Selangor and Trafalgar Street Houses.

19. At some time prior to the 18th October 1937 (but on what particular date Your Petitioners do not know), the Trust, acting under the provisions of Section 148 of the Municipal Ordinance, and Section 2(3) of the Improvement Ordinance, again requested the Governor in Council to order that backlanes affecting the Anson Road Property should be

===== Page 15 =====
SUB-DIVISION No. 23

Sd. James M. Fraser

A.R.I.B.A., A.M.T.P.I., A.M.I. Struct. E
Acting Manager,
SINGAPORE IMPROVEMENT TRUST.

===== Page 16 =====
laid out, and that certain portions of the Anson Road Property might be acquired for the purposes of such backlanes. The sites of the backlanes proposed by the Trust and those portions of the Anson Road Property sought to be acquired by the Trust for the purposes of such backlanes are shown coloured green in the plan annexed hereto marked B, and a comparison of that plan with the plan annexed hereto marked A will show that the proposals of the Trust in 1937 were for practical purposes similar to the proposals made by them in April 1934 and referred to in Paragraph 3 supra.

20. On the 18th October 1937, the Owners, while ignorant of the application made by the Trust referred to in the last preceding paragraph, by their architect Mr. Brewer, submitted to the Building Surveyor for approval by the Municipal Commissioners of Singapore the plans for the improvement of the Anson Road Houses which Mr. Brewer had prepared in accordance with the instructions he had received from the Owners as recited in Paragraph 18 supra. These plans showed that the kitchens, bathrooms and water closets to be provided would be built within the area upon which the Anson Road Houses had been built and that the Trafalgar Street and Selangor Street Houses would be demolished in order to make provision for the open areas proposed to be provided at the backs of the Anson Road Houses. Copies of the plans so submitted accompany this Petition and are marked Mr. Brewer's Plans.

21. On the 17th November 1937, the Municipal Commissioners, by their Secretary, by letter requested Mr. Brewer to state whether or not the plans he had submitted for the Owners had been approved by the Trust under Section 59 of the Improvement Ordinance. A copy of the Secretary's said letter accompanies this Petition.

22. On the 20th November 1937, Mr. Brewer replied, explaining why the plans had been submitted to the Building

===== Page 17 =====
Surveyor, and stating that they had not been submitted to the Trust because Section 59 of the Improvement Ordinance did not appear to apply to the case, and in his letter Mr. Brewer asked if he might be informed in what respect such section applied, if it did apply. A copy of Mr. Brewer's said letter accompanies this Petition.

23. Meanwhile, on or about the 22nd October 1937, the Trust's Backlane Scheme for the Anson Road Property had been gazetted in the Straits Settlements Government Gazette as Gazette Notification No. 3047 (a copy of which accompanies this Petition) and the Governor appointed Mr. L.H. Gorsuch (hereinafter referred to as "the Second Commissioner") to enquire into and report on the case.

24. On or about the 18th November 1937, a notice of the Trust's proposed Backlane Scheme dated the 12th November 1937 (a copy of which accompanies this Petition) was served on the Owners and on the 8th December 1937 Messrs. Sisson & Delay wrote to the Second Commissioner a letter, a copy of which accompanies this Petition.

25. On the 13th December 1937, the Second Commissioner wrote to Messrs. Sisson & Delay a letter, a copy of which accompanies this Petition.

26. After the receipt of the letter from the Second Commissioner referred to in the last preceding paragraph, Messrs. Sisson & Delay corresponded with the Attorney-General of the Straits Settlements in connection with the matter, and a copy of their letter to him of the 29th December 1937, and a copy of his reply of the 31st December 1937 accompany this Petition.

27. Correspondence between Messrs. Sisson & Delay and the Second Commissioner as to the date of the Inquiry in respect of the Backlane Scheme ensued, and it was arranged

===== Page 18 =====
That the Inquiry should be commenced on the 22nd March 1938. At the hearing of such Inquiry, the Manager of the Trust and a member of the firm of Messrs. Braddell Brothers, the Solicitors of the Trust, attended, and Shaikh Afifi, Mr. Brewer and a member of Messrs. Sisson & Delay, the Owners' Solicitors, also attended.

28. On the 25th March 1938, Messrs. Sisson & Delay wrote to the Second Commissioner a letter setting out the submissions made to the Second Commissioner on behalf of the Owners at the hearing of the Inquiry held on the 22nd March 1938. Such letter read as follows:

"Singapore, 25th March, 1938.

"Sir,

L.O.749/1934 - C.S.O. 7106/1937.

Anson Road Back Lane Scheme.

We have the honour to write to you with reference to the enquiry held by you on the 22nd instant in connection with the above backlane scheme.

2. You will recollect that the further hearing of the enquiry has been postponed until the 30th May next at 2.15 p.m., and as the interval of time which will elapse between now and then is considerable, it is possible that the submissions which we made on behalf of our Clients to you on the 22nd instant may, to some extent, be forgotten, and in order to prevent this occurring, we think it advisable to write to you, and repeat, so far as our recollection serves us, the submissions made to you.

3. Such submissions were as follows:

(i) The position of the back lanes as proposed by the Improvement Trust is detrimental to our Clients' properties, which form one block, and are all the subject of one ownership under a Settlement of the 6th March 1924, under which Syed Abdulrahman bin Shaikh Alkaff and his four brothers Syed Abubakar bin Shaikh Alkaff, Syed Omar bin Shaikh Alkaff, Syed Abdulgader bin Shaikh Alkaff and Syed Hassan bin Shaikh Alkaff are Trustees. This property forms part of the charitable Settlements of Syed Shaikh bin Abdulrahman Alkaff. These names were not given to you at the hearing, but we give them now as a matter of record.

(ii) The principal value of the property is its frontage to Anson Road, the main thoroughfare from Singapore to the Docks. The value of the frontages to Trafalgar Street and Selangor Street is small compared with the frontage to Anson Road.

(iii) If the back lanes as proposed by the Trust are ordered -

===== Page 19 =====
(a) The depth of the sites of the houses fronting Anson Road from Anson Road to the back lane will vary from 107 feet at the Trafalgar Street end to 95 feet at the Selangor Street end. (The depth of the existing buildings varies correspondingly from 99 ft. 6 inches to 90 ft. 6 inches).

(b) Assuming that the back lane between the Trafalgar and Selangor Street houses will be 15 feet wide, Nos. 2 and 3 Trafalgar Street would have a depth of approximately 62 feet, and Nos. 5 and 7 Selangor Street would have a similar depth. If the back lane is only 7 feet 6 inches wide, 8 feet 9 inches would be added to the depth of 62 feet, but 66 feet is not an economical depth for shop-houses, and 62 feet is less so, because with either such depth it is practically impossible to have 3 rooms on one floor.

(c) If the Trafalgar Street and Selangor Street houses are pulled down, as they may be, the back lane designed to separate them will serve no useful purpose.

(iv) On the 18th October last before the present scheme was gazetted, Messrs. Alkaff & Co. submitted plans to the Municipal Commissioners for the improvement of the Anson Road houses by the provision of kitchens, bathrooms, and water closets within the area already built on, and, by the demolition of the Trafalgar Street and Selangor Street houses, the provision also of open areas at the backs of such houses. If these plans could be approved, space can be reserved for a back lane, and the public will incur no cost whatever in respect thereof, unless the Improvement Trust insists on a back lane 15 feet wide. In such an event the cost to the public would probably be less than $6,000—(this figure was not given you at the hearing) as compared with the $20,000—which it is believed Mr. Langdon Williams said that the Improvement Trust expected to pay to carry out their scheme.

(v) Under Section 145 of the Municipal Ordinance, Messrs. Alkaff & Co. are not necessarily required to show that the houses, in respect of which their plans were submitted, abut on a back lane—Sub-section (2) of that Section might apply if the Trafalgar Street and Selangor Street houses were pulled down, and the plans submitted require the demolition of these houses.

(vi) Messrs. Alkaff & Co., have however, in the plans submitted, set apart 7'6" wide for half a back lane, as if Sub-section (1)(b) of Section 145 applied—This was done because the plans showed the provision of sanitary installation, and connection with a sewer if necessary, and the sewer has to be laid somewhere, preferably in a back lane.

(vii) The land set apart for half the back lane is next to Messrs. Fraser & Neave's store—any back lane there, adjoining as it would an open area, would

===== Page 20 =====
be advantageous to the owner of the site on which Messrs. Fraser & Neave's store is situate, and Messrs. Fraser & Neave have no objection to a back lane there—their letter which was submitted to you is evidence of this.

(viii) The widths of the sites of the seven Anson Road houses vary from 17 feet 6 inches to 27 feet (the inside measurements of the ground floors vary from 16 feet to 17 feet 2 inches), and the houses, if altered in accordance with the plans submitted as above mentioned, would fully comply with the requirements of the Municipal Ordinance and Bye-Laws.

(ix) Mr. Langdon Williams, the Manager of the Improvement Trust, has admitted that if the Anson Road houses are altered in accordance with the plans submitted, they will be not less healthy than they are at present, and it is submitted that this is obvious, because the area now occupied by Nos. 1, 2 and 3 Trafalgar Street, and Nos. 3, 5 and 7 Selangor Street will be an open area.

On the other hand, if the Trust's scheme for back lanes is accepted, Nos. 2 and 3 Trafalgar Street and Nos. 5 and 7 Selangor Street can still stand, and the Anson Road houses as a consequence would have much less open area at the rear, and much less light and ventilation than they would have if Messrs. Alkaff & Co.'s plans are approved, and the houses altered in accordance therewith.

(x) If the Anson Road houses could be altered in accordance with the plans submitted by Messrs. Alkaff & Co., the built-over portion of the sites of the houses cannot be extended without the submission of plans to the Improvement Trust and the Municipal Commissioners, so that there is no fear that the Anson Road houses can be lengthened unduly i.e. rebuilt to a depth of about 130 feet, and cubicles erected therein, as suggested by Mr. Langdon Williams. Cubicles cannot be prevented, except by the Municipality, and landlords cannot be blamed for their erection—the landlords are less powerful than the Municipality.

(xi) If the Anson Road houses should be pulled down in the future, it is unlikely that houses of the same character will be erected on the site. It is much more probable that a block of shops with flats would be erected, but in any event, any erection on the site will require the submission of plans to the Improvement Trust and the Municipal Commissioners.

(xii) Although the Improvement Trust suggests that 85 feet is the ideal depth for shop-houses in Singapore, the Municipal Bye-Laws lay down no limit for the depths of houses in Singapore, and for the Anson Road site a greater depth than 85 feet would be of considerable assistance in designing one large building for the site.

(xiii) Messrs. Alkaff & Co. have contended that the treatment accorded to them by the Improvement Trust has been different from that accorded to

===== Page 21 =====
Other owners in Singapore, but this contention is founded on allegations which Mr. Langdon Williams is to have an opportunity of replying to, and the enquiry has been adjourned with this object in view.

(xiv) The allegations referred to in (xiii) above are that the owners of the undermentioned houses (most of which are of a character similar, i.e., shophouses below and dwellings above, to the Anson Road houses) viz. Nos. 29, 33, 35, 37, 39, 41 and 43 Telok Ayer Street; Nos. 34, 36, 38, 40, 42, 44 and 46 Cecil Street; Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 Raffles Place; Nos. 39, 41, 43, 45, 47, 49, 51, 53, 55, 57, 59, 61, 63 and 65 Market Street; Nos. 3 to 17 Mohamed Sultan Road (most of these are dwelling houses); No. 159 Boat Quay; (Nos. 2 and 3 Fisher Street) have been accorded different treatment in that in their cases back lanes have been laid down which allow depths of houses varying from 114 feet to 189 feet 6 inches. As regards No. 159 Boat Quay, the Trust's original proposals were to allow an even greater depth, but they were modified at the request of our Clients.

4. Our Clients understand that Mr. Langdon Williams will submit to you his explanation of the lengths allowed for the houses referred to in 3 (xiv) above. Our Clients would like to be supplied with a copy of this explanation before the adjourned hearing.

5. We are sending two copies of this letter to Messrs. Braddell Brothers.

We have the honour to be,
Sir,
Your obedient servants,
S/d. Sisson & Delay.

L. Gorsuch, Esq.
The Land Office.

Two copies of such letter were sent to Messrs. Braddell Brothers, the Solicitors of the Trust - one of such copies being for the use of the Manager of the Trust.

29. On the 26th March 1938, Messrs. Braddell Brothers wrote Messrs. Sisson & Delay a letter reading as follows:

"Singapore, 26th March, 1938.

"Dear Sirs,

Anson Road Backlane Scheme.

We have your letter of the 25th March and we are sending a copy to our client.

===== Page 22 =====
With regard to your para. 13, we would like at once to say that, in our view, the matter therein referred to was by no means the only reason why the enquiry was adjourned, as your paragraph rather seems to suggest. We consider the matter altogether quite at large and we consider that we are at liberty to produce any evidence or arguments of any kind on the adjourned hearing.

Yours faithfully,
S/d. Braddell Brothers

Messrs. Sisson & Delay.

30. It will be seen from the submissions numbered (xiii) and (xiv) in Messrs. Sisson & Delay's letter of the 25th March 1938 set out in Paragraph 28 supra that the Owners contended that the treatment accorded to them by the Trust was different from that accorded to other owners in Singapore as regards the depth between the frontage of the Anson Road Houses and the Back Lane designed to serve them and also that the Manager of the Trust was to have an opportunity of replying to such contention. He did so by a letter written to the Second Commissioner on the 20th April 1938 which read as follows:

"Singapore, 20th April, 1938.

"No.S.I.T. 690/33.

Sir,

I put up my comments on the allegation made by Shaikh Yahya bin Ahamad Afifi on behalf of Messrs. Alkaff & Co. that the Trustees of the Singapore Improvement Trust favoured other owners against his firm and that the Trust would not give them the same facilities to develop their properties as given to other favoured owners.

(a) 180, 181, 182, 183 Queen Street. Mr. Afifi stated that the Trust had allowed the owner of this property to build his new houses to a depth of about 150' 0". The facts are as follows: These houses were built in 1918 before the Trust was in existence. In 1925, at the request of the Municipal Commissioners, the Governor in Council approved a layout for the block bounded by Waterloo Street, Queen Street, Middle Road and Albert Street, and under that scheme these properties have a depth of 80' 0", as this will be the depth when these properties are rebuilt to the new scheme. In view of the above facts, Mr. Afifi's allegation does not appear to be correct. Plan (a) refers.

(b) This house No.159 Boat Quay will be 115' 0" deep to the new back lane. This depth is unavoidable on account of the shape of the block at this point,

===== Page 23 =====
Owing to the fact that Boat Quay swings away from Angus Street to the junction of Fisher Street and Boat Quay. To have made the depth of 85' 0" for this house would have meant that houses Nos. 157, 156, and 155 would be only about 65' 0", 55' 0", and 50' 0" deep respectively. Too shallow for such an important road as Boat Quay with its river trade. In fact, the lane as planned is the only logical one. A glance at plan (b) will show the facts of this case. No. 3 Fisher Street is 70' 0" deep to the new back lane, so I cannot see any favourable treatment to this owner. Plan (b) refers.

(c) Cecil Street. Telok Ayer Street. Nos. 33 and 35 were recently rebuilt as Business premises. Under the Ordinance, NO BACK LANE is required for a non-domestic building, but a lane has been set aside at the rear of these premises 185' 0" deep. No back lane approved by Governor in Council. This block is chiefly used for trade purposes.

(d) Mohamed Sultan Road. Houses Nos. 9 to 17 averaged a depth of 165' 0" before the back lane was planned. The Trust planned the lane here approximately 125' 0" back from Mohamed Sultan Road, thus cutting down the depth of the Houses by 40' 0". The Trustees take the view that the normal depth of 85' 0" was not equitable here in view of the large amount of house accommodation cut off by the lane and the consequent open space at the rear, and that the depth approved by them was fair from the view of Public Health and owner. It should be noted that this is a case of decreasing the site depth and not increasing as requested by Messrs. Alkaff & Co. for the lane at Anson Road now under discussion. Plan (c) refers.

(e) Houses 65 - 39 Market Street. The lane is 137' 0" from Market Street. The Trust applied in the first case to the Governor in Council for a Back Lane 85' 0" from Market Street and another lane 158' 0" from Raffles Square. Government, however, insisted that only one lane should be put in instead of two, and that is the reason of the abnormal depth. It is to be noted that this is not the Trust's planning for this block. Plan (d) refers.

Messrs. Alkaff & Co. made practically the same allegations regarding favourite treatment in the case of the Lim Eng Bee Lane Insanitary Scheme. They wrote on 20th December 1933, to the Colonial Secretary alleging that "special indulgences" were shown to owners of other properties affected by the said Insanitary Scheme. I attach a copy of the Colonial Secretary's reply to this allegation. Again a further petition from Messrs. Alkaff & Co. regarding the same matter was sent to His Excellency the Governor on 30th November, 1934, and I attach a copy of the official reply to this petition for your information.

I have, etc.,
S/d. L. Langdon Williams.
Manager,
Singapore Improvement Trust.

31. On the 20th May 1938 the Second Commissioner wrote to

===== Page 24 =====
Messrs. Sisson & Delay sent a letter (a copy of which accompanies this Petition) offering inspection of the Manager's letter, a copy of which appears in the last preceding paragraph hereof. On the 24th of May 1938, the Manager forwarded to Messrs. Sisson & Delay a copy of his said letter of the 20th April 1938, together with the originals of the plans which accompanied such letter.

32. The hearing of the Inquiry before the Second Commissioner proceeded on the 20th June 1938. At this hearing, the parties concerned attended and were represented in the same manner as at the hearing on the 22nd March 1938. On behalf of the Owners, 9 plans supplied by the Trust (copies of which accompany this Petition and are marked C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, & K respectively) were put in evidence before the Second Commissioner as instances of cases in which the Trust, in siting Back Lanes, had allowed depths for houses exceeding 85 feet from the front to the Back Lane.

33. On the 21st June 1938, Messrs. Sisson & Delay wrote to the Second Commissioner a letter containing a précis of the submissions made on the Owners' behalf at the previous day's hearing. Such letter read as follows:

"Singapore, 21st June, 1938.

Sir,

L.O. 749/1934. C.S.O. 7106/1937.

Anson Road Back Lane Scheme.

We have the honour to refer to our letter to you of the 25th March last in respect of this matter, in which we set out particulars of the submissions made to you on behalf of our Clients at the hearing of the enquiry before you on the 22nd March.

2. Our Clients' principal objection to the siting of the Back Lanes where the Improvement Trust has applied for them was that if the Back Lanes were so situated, the block of property affected, which now forms one compact block capable of development as such, would be cut up into three blocks, and future building operations or development would necessarily be restricted by the size and shape of these three blocks, two of which (consisting respectively of two houses in Selangor Street, and two houses in Trafalgar Street) would have little value to"

===== Page 25 =====
Our clients, while the third, that with the frontage to Anson Road, the valuable frontage, would probably be more suitable for shophouses of the present standard variety than for anything else. These proposals of the Improvement Trust to limit the right of our clients to develop their property in what they might think was the manner most advantageous to them was what led our clients in the first place to oppose such proposals, and to suggest that there should be one back lane only, a back lane situated alongside Fraser & Neave's Factory, which, while allowing a greater depth for the sites of the Anson Road houses and premises, would still permit freedom of action for future building development.

3. The main objection of our clients to the Trust's proposals was further emphasised by the submissions made to you yesterday by our clients' Manager, Shaik Yahya bin Ahmad Afifi, and Mr. Brewer to the effect -

(a) that the present built-over area of the Anson Road houses cannot be extended at all, because (allowing for a 15-foot back lane next to Fraser & Neave's Factory) and taking the block as a whole (i.e., including the sites of the Selangor Street and Trafalgar Street houses as part of the block) the area at present occupied by the Anson Road houses represents the maximum area that can, under the present building bye-laws, be built upon.

(b) if the present Anson Road houses are pulled down, it is probable that premises for business purposes only or godowns will be built on the site, and according to Mr. Langdon Williams' evidence (given in connection with Nos. 33 & 35 Teluk Ayer Street), such buildings do not require a back lane, although one was ordered for buildings fronting Malacca & Cecil Streets.

4. In the same connection Mr. F.W.A. Brewer gave evidence to the effect that if the back lanes asked for by the Improvement Trust are laid out, and notices of the usual kind to provide sanitary installations, etc., are served on Messrs. Alkaff & Co. by the Municipality, the alterations shown on the plans which he (Mr. Brewer) produced, would be necessary to comply with such notices - that such plans indicate the minimum work which Messrs. Alkaff & Co. will be bound to do, and in doing it, Messrs. Alkaff & Co. cannot be required to shorten the Anson Road houses nor to give up any area within the area now built over, as open areas for such houses. This evidence Mr. Brewer persisted in, notwithstanding the suggestions made to him by Mr. Langdon Williams in cross-examination, to the effect that -

(a) The ordinary notices issued by the Municipality in such cases do not call for all the rebuilding shown in Mr. Brewer's plans, and

(b) Messrs. Alkaff & Co. would be compelled to provide open areas for the Anson Road houses within the area already built over.

5. From the evidence given by Mr. Langdon Williams before you, our clients understand that the Improvement Trust will have no objection to a back lane 15' wide being laid out adjoining Messrs. Fraser & Neave's Factory if -

===== Page 26 =====
(a) The Anson Road Houses are pulled down and replaced by an office or tenement block, provided that the sites of the Selangor Street and Trafalgar Street houses are set aside to form the open area for the new building, or

(b) The Anson Road Houses are pulled down and replaced by new houses, provided that the ordinary open area required for such houses be reserved within the present built-over area, and the sites of the Selangor Street and Trafalgar Street houses be given up as additional open area for the new shophouses.

But in formulating (b), Mr. Langdon Williams admitted that he was asking for more than the law requires from Messrs. Alkaff & Co. and said that his object in doing so was to prevent the property continuing in its present state, as in his opinion a built-over depth of more than 85 ft. was insanitary and too great for ordinary domestic premises.

6. Our Clients gathered from the evidence given by Mr. Langdon Williams before you yesterday, that, even in 1934, the Improvement Trust would have been willing to compromise with Messrs. Alkaff & Co. and agree to a back lane sited next to the Factory of Messrs. Fraser & Neave Ltd., upon the terms indicated in (a) or (b) of Paragraph 5 supra, but neither our Clients nor Mr. Brewer were then aware of the possibility outlined in Clause (b), and their understanding of the proposal referred to in Clause (a), was that it had only been offered as a compromise on the terms that Messrs. Alkaff & Co. should undertake to rebuild the Anson Road Houses within 18 months, which they refused to do. You will no doubt form your own opinion as to this evidence, bearing in mind pp. 158, 159, 174 & 175 of the Appeal Record.

7. We have thought it necessary to refer with some particularity to all the above matters, in order to lead up to what our Clients, and we ourselves understand was an unqualified undertaking on the part of the Improvement Trust, first suggested by Mr. Langdon Williams towards the close of his evidence, and subsequent thereto, given unreservedly by Mr. Laycock, as Solicitor for the Improvement Trust. The writer noted this undertaking as follows:

"In the event of the Improvement Trust's proposals being approved, and the Back Lanes constructed accordingly, if at any future time the Owners wish to erect a large office building on the whole block, the Trust will then be willing to take all necessary steps to amend the layout, so as to provide for the back lane being moved to a position alongside Messrs. Fraser & Neave's premises to a width of 15 ft. therefrom, and the Trust would be willing to take such necessary steps by way of application to the Governor in Council and by making representations to the Municipal Commissioners with a view to effectuating this".

Mr. Langdon Williams said that there could be a sale or exchange of the sites of the back lanes under Section 150 of the Municipal Ordinance, and we understood Mr. Laycock to support this statement.

8. Our Clients' Manager, Mr. Afifi, Mr. Brewer, and the writer, all understood both Mr. Langdon Williams and Mr.

===== Page 27 =====
Laycock to say yesterday that during the course of the enquiry before you, Mr. Afifi, Mr. Brewer, and the writer had been informed of the willingness of the Trust to meet our Clients to the extent suggested by or referred to in Paragraph 7 supra. We gathered that Mr. Langdon Williams went further and said that the Trust had been so willing prior to or at the enquiry before Mr. Ebden, and that Mr. Afifi, Mr. Brewer, and the writer then knew this. On behalf of Mr. Afifi, Mr. Brewer, and the writer, we say that Mr. Langdon Williams and Mr. Laycock have both misled themselves. Mr. Langdon Williams' evidence to the effect referred to, and Mr. Laycock's undertaking, both came as a complete surprise to them all, and the writer therefore asked for further time to consider the position.

9. We have since discussed the matter with Mr. Afifi and Mr. Brewer, and we are instructed to write you as follows:

(a) If either before or during the enquiry before Mr. Ebden, our Clients had known that the Trust would have been willing to meet them in the manner suggested in Paragraph 7 supra, they would certainly not have contested the Trust's proposals. They then had no immediate intention of pulling down the Selangor Street and Trafalgar Street Houses, and the proposals, coupled with an understanding such as that outlined in Paragraph 7 supra, would have suited them admirably.

(b) Having regard to (a) above, and to the fact that the Trust has met our Clients over the South Bridge Road and Waterloo Street &c. Back Lane Schemes, and could have so met them before the certiorari proceedings had been commenced, if the Trust had in 1934 only informed our Clients of what they were prepared to do (though as regards the South Bridge Road Back Lane our Clients do not blame the Improvement Trust), it would have been unnecessary for our Clients to have taken the certiorari proceedings against the Governor.

(c) Our Clients have unnecessarily incurred expense in connection with all three Back Lane Schemes, particularly this one, and the expense has been considerable.

(d) In view of (b) and (c), and the reasons given hereafter, our Clients are not now prepared to accept the offer of the Improvement Trust referred to in Paragraph 7 supra - their reasons are as follows:

(1) Our Clients do not wish to retain the buildings of the Selangor Street and Trafalgar Street Houses - they wish to pull them down, and to utilise their sites (less any area required for a back lane situate alongside Fraser & Neave's premises), as open areas for the Anson Road Houses.

(2) Even if the Governor in Council should order the Back Lanes to be where the Improvement Trust wishes

(1) our Clients cannot be compelled to shorten the Anson Road Houses, or to give up, as

===== Page 28 =====
Open areas for those houses, any of the area already built over, and our clients submit that in asking them to do this, Mr. Langdon Williams has admitted that he has asked for more than the law requires from Messrs. Alkaff & Co.

(ii) As indicated in (i) supra, the Improvement Trust cannot lawfully compel Messrs. Alkaff & Co. to provide open areas for the present Anson Road houses within the area already built over, but while admitting this, they seek to prevent Messrs. Alkaff & Co. from providing additional open areas for such houses by pulling down the Selangor Street and Trafalgar Street houses.

(iii) While the Selangor Street and Trafalgar Street houses would no doubt be improved by the Improvement Trust's proposals, they would not even then be ideal houses from the health point of view, and Messrs. Alkaff & Co. do not wish to retain them, as in their opinion they would be uneconomical, and still of the character of slum houses.

(iv) Owing to the value of the Anson Road frontage, the Back Lane will undoubtedly be ultimately situate alongside Fraser & Neave's premises, and to site it elsewhere now, and to change its site later, will cause additional trouble and expense, not only to Messrs. Alkaff & Co. but also to the Municipality who (assuming that the law is not altered) will have to make up two back lanes, instead of one, and construct two sewers, instead of one.

(v) Our clients can improve the Anson Road houses substantially in the manner shown in the plans prepared by Mr. Brewer, and Mr. Langdon Williams has admitted that if the works shown in Mr. Brewer's plans are carried out, the Anson Road houses will be healthier and better than they are now - they would be still further improved by possessing, as open areas, the sites of the Selangor Street and Trafalgar Street houses, but they are quite good houses at present - there is no evidence that the tenants have suffered by reason of their present length - the evidence is to the contrary, and although Mr. Langdon Williams says that a length exceeding 85' is insanitary this has not been proved by medical evidence.

(vi) The works shown in Mr. Brewer's plans will be the minimum necessary to comply with the notices ordinarily issued by the Municipality when requiring sanitary installations etc., notwithstanding Mr.

===== Page 29 =====
Langdon Williams' evidence to the contrary.

(vii) Mr. Langdon Williams has admitted that the cost of the scheme of the Improvement Trust to the Trust would be considerably more than the cost of allowing Messrs. Alkaff & Co. to proceed as outlined in (i) supra, and Messrs. Alkaff & Co. do not wish to be "benefited" in a manner which does not accord with their own views of what is right.

(3) To allow the Trust to insist upon their Scheme is, in effect, to allow them to use the powers conferred upon them by law, in order to coerce Messrs. Alkaff & Co. to retain in existence houses which they wish to pull down, and to do something which they cannot by law be compelled to do - see (2) (i) supra.

(4) The views of the Improvement Trust as to the length of buildings between front and back were stated in their Chairman's letter of the 12th October 1934 (see p.42 of the Appeal Record, and the letters at pp.34, 36, 37, 39 & 40 relating thereto) to Messrs. Alkaff & Co.'s Solicitors. The ideal depth for houses of the Anson Road type is there stated to be 85', but in such letter it is admitted that "ownership" is one of the features which may occasion departure from such ideal depth. It is submitted that in the present case, due regard for "ownership" calls for such a departure.

(5) The Trust's opinion that 85' is an ideal depth is based upon a standard frontage of 16'. How long such opinion and standard may remain unaltered it is impossible to foresee, but the evidence is that the present Anson Road houses have a prospective life of about 30 years.

(6) Greater depths than 85' have been allowed for houses in very many instances, some of which have been referred to in evidence. In addition to the cases specified in our letter to you of the 25th March last, we refer to Nos. 1 to 15-8 and Nos. 210 to 217-5 Queen Street, Nos. 69 to 115 Victoria Street, Nos. 73 to 74-5 Bras Basah Road, Nos. 67 to 111 Waterloo Street, and Nos. 5 to 13 Beach Road, all of which houses were mentioned by Mr. Afifi in his evidence before you yesterday, and we invite particular reference to the cases of the houses in Raffles Place and Market Street (where the Governor in Council disagreed with the Improvement Trust's proposals) and the houses in Cecil Street and Teluk Ayer Street (where the Improvement Trust have planned a back lane not yet approved by the Governor in Council, but to which no objection can be expected, having regard to the depths thereby allowed, which depths vary from 160' to 208'). Many of the cases above referred to have been the subject of Back Lane Orders made by the Governor in Council quite recently, and knowledge of them in 1934 was impossible.

===== Page 30 =====
While admitting that each case must be dealt with on its own merits, and that in many cases special circumstances have existed which have called for special allowances, it is submitted that the present case is also one calling for special allowance, and that in refusing such allowance the Trust is not acting impartially.

(7) In connection with the allegation made against the Trust that the Trust had not acted impartially in dealing with Messrs. Alkaff & Co., we are instructed to say that this allegation has not been withdrawn by our Clients, as Mr. Laycock seemed to suppose yesterday, and you will recollect that the reason why Mr. Afifi did not in his evidence deal with the reference made in Mr. Langdon Williams' letter to the case in which complaints had been made by Messrs. Alkaff & Co. to the Governor, was that we understood that you did not intend to take into consideration the reference referred to.

We have set out at length the reasons (additional to those specified in our letter to you of the 25th March last) of our Clients for refusing at the present stage, to agree to the Improvement Trust's proposals. They feel that if the Trust had been fair to them, they would, in 1934, have informed them that their proposals might be considered subject to an undertaking of the nature particularised in Paragraph 7 supra, and that if the Trust had done this, very much time, trouble and expense could have been obviated. Now that these have been incurred, and that conditions have altered, our Clients feel that in justice to themselves, they cannot agree; they regret their inability to do so, but in their view, what would have been fair to them in 1934, is not fair to them now.

We are sending two copies of this letter to Messrs. Braddell Brothers - one for their use and the other for the use of Mr. Langdon Williams.

We have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servants,

S/d. Sisson & Delay.

L. H. Gorsuch, Esq.

Two copies of such letter were sent to Messrs. Braddell Brothers - one for their use, and the other for the use of the Manager of the Trust.

34. On the 24th June 1938 Messrs. Sisson & Delay wrote to Messrs. Braddell Brothers a letter reading as follows:

"Singapore, 24th June, 1938.

"Dear Sirs,

Anson Road Backlane Scheme.

We have been instructed by our Clients, Messrs. Alkaff

===== Page 31 =====
& Co., to write to you with reference to the undertaking which we and our Clients understood Mr. Laycock gave on behalf of the Improvement Trust in connection with the above, at the recent enquiry before Mr. Gorsuch.

The text of the undertaking, as noted by the writer, appears in our letter to Mr. Gorsuch of the 21st instant, of which we supplied you with a copy, and is as follows:

"In the event of the Improvement Trust's proposals being approved, and the Back Lanes constructed accordingly, if at any future time the Owners wish to erect a large office building on the whole block, the Trust will then be willing to take all necessary steps to amend the layout, so as to provide for the back lane being moved to a position alongside Messrs. Fraser & Neave's premises to a width of 15 ft. therefrom, and the Trust would be willing to take such necessary steps by way of application to the Governor in Council, and by making representations to the Municipal Commissioners with a view to effectuating this."

At the hearing before Mr. Gorsuch on the 21st instant, we understand your Mr. Laycock to say -

"(1) That when he used the words "large office building" in the undertaking, he meant "business premises".

(2) That after the hearing on the 20th instant he had seen Mr. Bartley, the Chairman of the Trust and the President of the Municipal Commissioners, who had told him that the undertaking given by Mr. Laycock expressed what always had been the view and intention of the Improvement Trust, and that Mr. Laycock had been quite right in giving such undertaking.

(3) That Mr. Bartley had authorised him, Mr. Laycock, to say that he (Mr. Bartley) thought that the Improvement Trust would find no difficulty in approving the erection of a "tenement block" instead of "business premises" on the block in question, provided that the plans of the proposed building were submitted to the Improvement Trust and approved by them, but that the Trust would themselves require to approve such plans.

(4) That the undertaking given by him would hold good whether the Improvement Trust's present scheme for the Back Lanes was accepted by our Clients, Messrs. Alkaff & Co., or not. In other words, that even if our Clients refused to agree to the Trust's proposals, the undertaking would hold good provided that the present scheme of the Trust was ordered by the Governor in Council.

The matter is rather an important one for our Clients, and we should be much obliged if you would let us know whether we have in this letter correctly stated the position. If we have not done so, would you please be good enough to let us know in what respects our understanding is incorrect, and inform us what the exact position is.

We are, Dear Sirs,
Yours faithfully,
S/d. Sisson & Delay.

Messrs. Braddell Brothers.

===== Page 32 =====
35. The Trust did not agree with all the submissions made on behalf of the Owners in the letter written by Messrs. Sisson & Delay to the Second Commissioner on the 21st June 1938, and set out in Paragraph 33 hereof, and on the 6th July 1938 Messrs. Braddell Brothers wrote to the Second Commissioner replying to such contentions as follows:

"Singapore, 6th July, 1938.

"Sir,

re. Anson Road Backlane Scheme.

1. The Singapore Improvement Trust are surprised to see the letter of the 21st June 1938 sent in by Messrs. Sisson & Delay. They do not agree with all the statements therein contained and they think that it is important that they should set out their own contentions.

2. The position of the Singapore Improvement Trust has been clear throughout the whole of these proceedings from the year 1934 onwards. They oppose any line of backlane being sited alongside Fraser & Neave's building as suggested by Alkaff & Co. They have two reasons for doing so. In the first place they consider that 135 feet is too great a depth for a domestic building. A building of this depth in this locality is almost certain to be divided up into multiple cubicles and overcrowded. The Trust regard 85 feet depth as the desideratum. This allows for 3 rooms on each floor each room having its own window and ventilation to the street or open area. Any excess depth over 85 feet leads to the erection of insanitary cubicles. The Singapore Improvement Trust have prepared plans showing how this can be and is done. In the second place Messrs. Alkaff & Co.'s proposals (although they involve giving up a considerable open area by demolition of houses in Selangor Street and Trafalgar Street) will very little improve the existing buildings fronting on Anson Road. The creation of an open space (or a provision of a backlane) will of course result in more air and light coming into the back part of the premises but this will be partly blocked by necessary changes at the back of the premises (by way of provision of W.C., kitchen and bathroom accommodation) and there cannot be any material improvement in the way of giving more air and light to the front part of the premises until rebuilding takes place.

3. The Singapore Improvement Trust have always held the view that, if a backlane were situated alongside Fraser & Neave's factory, they would have no objection to a large business block of buildings being erected on the whole of the remainder of the site belonging to objectors situate between such backlane and Trafalgar Street, Anson Road and Selangor Street. By business block, they mean a block of buildings wholly devoted to business purposes; not partly to business and partly to human habitation.

4. It is admitted by all the parties that this point of view was placed before the objectors by Mr. Langdon Williams so long ago as 1934 and it has been repeated from time to time.

===== Page 33 =====
5. Mr. Langdon Williams has gone further at times and said that he personally would have no objection to a suitable tenement block being erected on this large site provided that the plan thereof be approved by the Singapore Improvement Trust.

6. These statements have been made by the officers of the Trust not as special offers to Messrs. Alkaff & Co. but because they accord with the general policy of the Trust as applied to the site in question.

7. When mention is made in pages 4, 5 and 6 of Messrs. Sisson & Delay's letter of offers and undertakings by Mr. Langdon Williams and Mr. Laycock such statements must all be taken as subject to the above.

8. Mr. Langdon Williams told the objectors' representatives in 1934 that if an undertaking could be given that a business block or even an approved tenement block was to be erected within a reasonable limited time the Trust would agree to the backlane being so sited alongside Fraser & Neave's building. The owners declined to give any undertaking as to construction of such a building.

9. If the Trust were to agree to a backlane alongside Fraser & Neave's building without any condition for immediate rebuilding there will be nothing to prevent dwelling houses being built in the future over the whole site to a depth of 135 feet or thereabouts and this the Trust object to as set out above.

10. With regard to para. 8 of Messrs. Sisson & Delay's letter Mr. Langdon Williams and Mr. Laycock both deny that they have either misled themselves or that they are misled at all and they cannot understand how anything they have said could have come as any surprise at all. The attitude of the Singapore Improvement Trust (and of its officers and representatives) has been simple unchanging and consistent throughout the whole matter.

11. With regard to page 4 para. 5 of Messrs. Sisson & Delay's letter it is quite true Mr. Langdon Williams did make an offer of compromise as stated in sub-paragraph B. The Singapore Building By-laws prescribe certain minimum requirements in regard to light, air, open area etc. Mr. Langdon Williams suggested that in return for concessions on the part of the Singapore Improvement Trust, Messrs. Alkaff & Co. might agree to give something more than the bare legal minimum. Messrs. Alkaff & Co. were quite aware of the Municipal Building By-laws and of their legal position and we can see no reason why Mr. Langdon Williams should not try to persuade Messrs. Alkaff & Co. to go beyond the bare legal minimum requirements. Some owners do this without persuasion and without any quid pro quo.

12. With regard to para. 6 of Messrs. Sisson & Delay's letter this appears to us to show a misunderstanding of the position. The undertaking given by Mr. Laycock on behalf of the Singapore Improvement Trust in para. 7 was entirely consistent with the attitude of the Singapore Improvement Trust right through the whole proceedings from 1934 up to date. Mr. Langdon Williams made a somewhat similar statement in 1934. Mr. Langdon Williams asserts that he made a similar statement earlier on in the enquiry before you. (Mr. Laycock is sure that he heard Mr. Langdon Williams make such a statement). With regard to para. 9

===== Page 34 =====
Of Messrs. Sisson & Delay's letter, we have difficulty in believing that the Certiorari Proceedings would have been in any way affected by any statement made by Mr. Langdon Williams in 1934. It may be noted that on the 20th June this statement was made by Mr. Langdon Williams offhand in the course of cross-examination. When the objectors asked that it should be carefully noted, Mr. Langdon Williams asked Mr. Laycock to express it in legal phraseology. Mr. Laycock immediately did so without any further instructions. On the next day, Mr. Laycock interviewed the Chairman, Improvement Trust, to make sure that he had not made any over-statement and the Chairman, Improvement Trust, confirmed this. Such a course of events could only have been possible on the basis that the principle was already clear in the minds of all three persons.

13. We are instructed to emphasize that the attitude and the proposals of the Singapore Improvement Trust with regard to this present scheme (Anson Road backlane etc.) have never varied from 1934 to date.

14. With regard to para. 9(b) of Messrs. Sisson & Delay's letter, it must be pointed out that in 1934 Messrs. Alkaff & Co. did not object to the line of the backlane proposed for Waterloo Street etc. and therefore there was then nothing to compromise about. They have objected to the exactly similar proposals made in 1938 stating that they have changed their minds since 1934. In view of this, it is remarkable that Messrs. Alkaff & Co. now say that if they had known in 1934 that the Trust were willing to compromise on the line of the proposed backlane they would not have taken certiorari proceedings in respect thereof. They admit that they do not now blame the Singapore Improvement Trust about the South Bridge Road Backlane Scheme; but they certioraried the Singapore Improvement Trust in respect of this also.

15. We observe Messrs. Sisson & Delay say that their clients have incurred considerable expense, but we take leave to point out that the costs of the Certiorari proceedings were ordered to be paid by the Government and the Singapore Improvement Trust both in the High Court and in the Court of Appeal. It also appears to the Singapore Improvement Trust that by the course of this present enquiry (which has been very prolonged) Messrs. Alkaff & Co. have caused the Singapore Improvement Trust to incur unnecessarily heavy expense. A large proportion of the time of the enquiry, for example, has been devoted to charges of partiality made against the Singapore Improvement Trust by Alkaff & Co. which they have been quite unable to substantiate at all.

16. With regard to para. 4 of Messrs. Sisson & Delay's letter, the statement in this para. only refers to the evidence given by Mr. Brewer of the 20th June 1938. The letter was in fact written before the further hearing on the 21st. At the further hearing on the 31st, Mr. Langdon Williams produced a plan showing the Municipal Commissioners' sanitary requirements installed within the walls of the existing building. Mr. Brewer did not dispute this, but he said he "thought it would not be a job." It was therefore clear that the ordinary notices issued by the Municipal Commissioners do not in fact call for all the rebuilding shown in Mr. Brewer's plans; and that Mr. Brewer's plans did not in fact indicate the minimum work which Messrs.

===== Page 35 =====
Alkaff & Co. would be bound to do. This is a small matter, but we add this paragraph as apparently some stress is laid on this by Messrs. Sisson & Delay.

We have the honour to be,
Sir,
Your obedient servants,
S/d. Braddell Brothers.

L.H. Gorsuch, Esq.

On the 7th July, Messrs. Braddell Brothers sent to Messrs. Sisson & Delay a copy of the above letter.

36. On the 11th July 1938, the Second Commissioner wrote to Messrs. Sisson & Delay enquiring if they had any representations to make arising out of Messrs. Braddell Brothers' letter to him of the 6th July 1938.

37. On the 18th July 1938, Messrs. Sisson & Delay wrote to the Second Commissioner commenting on Messrs. Braddell Brothers' letter to him of the 6th July 1938. Their letter read as follows:

"Singapore, 18th July, 1938.

"Sir,

Anson Road Back Lane Enquiry.

We regret the delay in replying to your letter of the 11th instant, but the writer who has been attending to the matter has been absent in Penang, as explained to you in our letters of the 11th and 12th instant.

2. Our Clients desire us to make the following comments on Messrs. Braddell Brothers' letter to you of the 6th instant:

(i) As regards Paragraph 2, it is contended by our Clients that any unbiased consideration of their plans will clearly show that the admission of light and air to the Anson Road buildings would be very greatly improved if the alterations contemplated by such plans were carried out, and that the alterations in the back of the premises would not result in any such blocking as alleged.

(ii) As regards Paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8, Shaikh Yahya bin Ahamad Afifi and Mr. Brewer stated at the Enquiry before you that they had no knowledge (and the writer had none) of the view of the Improvement Trust as defined in Paragraph 3 of Messrs. Braddell Brothers' letter, beyond that indicated by the suggestion made by Mr. Langdon Williams for rebuilding the Anson Road premises, and this suggestion did not refer to the erection of a business block, but merely to rebuilding on the Anson Road site within 18 months. In consequence of this,

===== Page 36 =====
Our Clients, and their architect, deny the suggestion made in Paragraph 4 of Messrs. Braddell Brothers' letter, and the contention raised by Paragraph 6.

(iii) Our Clients submit that the statement made in Paragraph 9 of Messrs. Braddell Brothers' letter is misleading, and they point out that at the Enquiry before you, Mr. Langdon Williams admitted that domestic buildings could not be erected on the site except in accordance with plans approved under the present bye-laws, and also admitted that these bye-laws would prohibit building over the whole site to a depth of 135 feet or thereabouts; in fact (as Mr. Langdon Williams also admitted) the bye-laws would prohibit a domestic building covering an area larger than the area at present covered by the Anson Road buildings.

(iv) As regards Paragraphs 10, 11 and 12, our Clients have nothing to add to what was stated before you. They do not agree with the statements made in Paragraph 10 of Messrs. Braddell Brothers' letter. They say that prior to the statement which was made before you, no suggestion was ever made on behalf of the Improvement Trust that if the Back Lane were sited where the Improvement Trust now want it, they would support an application for the removal of such Back Lane to a site adjoining Messrs. Fraser & Neave's premises, if Messrs. Alkaff & Co. desired at a later date to erect business premises on the site of the Anson Road buildings.

(v) As regards Paragraph 14, our Clients invite reference to the papers relating to the Scheme therein referred to, from which it will be seen that although our Clients did not object to one portion of the Scheme, they did object to the remainder, and their recent objection was made in respect of the whole Scheme. The certiorari proceedings included the South Bridge Road Back Lane Order, because the Back Lane Order originally made was objected to by our Clients, and an arrangement has now been made to vary this in accordance with their wishes, which have never altered since 1934.

(vi) As regards Paragraph 15, although as a result of having been successful in the certiorari proceedings, our Clients have been paid the party and party costs in respect thereof, they had to pay solicitor and client costs. As regards the charges of partiality referred to in this paragraph, these have not been withdrawn, and our Clients submit that they have been proved in certain instances.

(vii) As regards Paragraph 16, Mr. Brewer contends that he was correct in saying that the work shown in the plan prepared by Mr. Langdon Williams "would not be a job"; by this he meant that no responsible architect would consider submitting to the Municipal Commissioners a plan showing only works of the nature indicated in the sketch plan prepared by Mr. Langdon Williams, and that if he did, such plan would not be passed. Mr. Brewer still contends that his plans show the minimum work that any qualified architect would consider necessary.

===== Page 37 =====
To comply with a Municipal Notice calling for sanitary accommodation of the type under consideration. In this connection, our Clients desire us to inform you that since 1930 up to date, sanitary installations in their houses, which have been called for by the Municipality, have always been carried out by the Municipality at costs varying from about $280 to something over $700 per house. As instances, they refer to Nos. 254 to 262 South Bridge Road, where the cost varied between $276 and $391; to Nos. 55 to 65 Pagoda Street, where the cost was in each case $400.16; and to Nos. 23 to 26-1 Church Street, where the cost was $708.75 in each case. More recent cases in which sanitary installations have been made are at Nos. 36, 38, 40 and 42 New Market Road, for which the total cost was $2,111.97. Our Clients can refer you to numerous other instances if you wish.

3. We are sending two copies of this letter to Messrs. Braddell Brothers.

We have the honour to be,
Sir,
Your obedient servants,
S/d. Sisson & Delay.

L. H. Gorsuch, Esq.

Two copies of the said letter were sent to Messrs. Braddell Brothers - one for their use, and the other for the use of the Manager of the Trust.

38. On the 19th July 1938 Messrs. Braddell Brothers wrote to the Second Commissioner commenting on Messrs. Sisson & Delay's last letter as follows:

"Singapore, 19th July, 1938.

"Sir,

Anson Road Backlane Enquiry.

We have received a further long letter from Messrs. Sisson & Delay about this matter.

We must respectfully ask you to decline to deal with this matter by correspondence. Messrs. Sisson & Delay have had ample opportunities of bringing forward all possible arguments before you at the hearing of the enquiry. If you are prepared to reopen the enquiry to allow them to bring forward further arguments we can take no objection to that course but we do not understand this procedure of sending letters to the Judge. Such a procedure in fact is as novel as it is undesirable.

If we are going to be bombarded with 5 page letters from Messrs. Sisson & Delay every week or two there is going to be no end to this enquiry and we must respectfully ask that the usual methods of procedure be adhered to.

We have the honour to be,
Sir,
Your obedient servants,
S/d. Braddell Brothers.

===== Page 38 =====
On the said 19th July 1938, Messrs. Braddell Brothers sent a copy of this letter to Messrs. Sisson & Delay.

39. On the 26th July 1938, Messrs. Sisson & Delay wrote to the Second Commissioner a letter reading as follows:

"Singapore, 26th July, 1938.

"Sir,

Anson Road Backlane enquiry.

On the 20th July, we received from Messrs. Braddell Brothers a copy of the letter which they wrote to you on the previous day.

In our view, it was unnecessary to write you about this letter, as it seemed to us to convey the refutation of its comments, but our Clients have asked us to write to you, and to point out that at the last hearing before you the possibility of their desiring to reply to Messrs. Braddell Brothers' comments on our letter to you of the 21st of June was referred to, and considered, and this was recognised by your writing to us your letter of the 11th instant, in which you stated --

"I shall be glad to know as early as possible whether you have any further representations to make arising out of that letter (i.e. Messrs. Braddell Brothers' letter of the 6th July), as I propose now to prepare my report on the enquiry".

We are sending a copy of this letter to Messrs. Braddell Brothers.

We have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servants,

S/d. Sisson & Delay.

L.H. Gorsuch, Esq."

40. On or about the 7th September 1938, the Governor in Council ordered that Backlanes affecting the Anson Road Property should be laid out and that the land required for the purposes of such Backlanes should be acquired in accordance with the application made by the Trust, and on the 16th September 1938, such Order was published in the Straits Settlements Government Gazette (being Gazette Notification No. 2712) a copy of which accompanies this Petition.

41. On the 28th September 1938, Messrs. Sisson & Delay wrote to the Colonial Secretary of the Straits Settlements as follows:

===== Page 39 =====
Singapore, 28th September, 1938.

Sir,

Anson Road Back Lanes.

We have the honour to write to you on behalf of our Clients Syed Abdulrahman bin Shaikh Alkaff and others, the Trustees of a Settlement for charitable purposes founded to give effect to the wishes of the late Syed Shaikh bin Abdulrahman Alkaff, and as such, the Owners of the houses Nos. 157 to 169 Anson Road, Nos. 1, 2 and 3 Trafalgar Street, and Nos. 3, 5 and 7 Selangor Street.

2. The properties referred to were recently the subject of a Back Lane Scheme in respect of which the Governor in Council made an Order under Section 148 of the Municipal Ordinance, and our Clients inform us that this Order was gazetted on the 16th September.

3. Before the Governor in Council made the Order referred to, an enquiry into the Scheme was held by Mr. L. H. Gorsuch, and our Clients and the Singapore Improvement Trust were represented at such enquiry, at which evidence was taken at length. Our Clients were of opinion that the evidence at the enquiry was very much in their favour, and they are at a loss to understand why the Governor in Council should have made the Order asked for by the Improvement Trust. In the circumstances, they would be much obliged if they might be allowed to see the Report of Mr. Gorsuch to the Governor in Council, which they assume was the foundation of the Order made, but if in such Report Mr. Gorsuch did not make any recommendation, our Clients would be grateful if they could be supplied with the reasons for the making of the Order.

4. Our Clients feel that there must have been some misapprehension as to their attitude in the matter, and in order that this should not be misunderstood, they wish us to draw attention to our letters to Mr. Gorsuch of the 25th March, the 21st June and the 16th July 1938, which stated at length our Clients' submissions, and were written so that none of such submissions should be overlooked. Perusal of the letters referred to will show -

(i) That the plan which our Clients submitted to the Municipal Commissioners on the 18th October last for the installation of kitchen, bathroom and sanitary accommodation to houses Nos. 157 to 169 Anson Road involved the demolition of the three houses in Trafalgar Street, and the three houses in Selangor Street;

(ii) That at the hearing of the enquiry it was admitted by the Manager of the Improvement Trust that if the alterations contemplated by our Clients' plans were carried out, the Anson Road houses would be much improved;

(iii) That the demolition of the six houses in Trafalgar Street and Selangor Street would result in their sites becoming open spaces for the Anson Road houses, inasmuch as these sites could not be built upon in any way whatever.

(NOTE: Our Clients would have been prepared to [POSSIBLY MISSING].)

===== Page 40 =====
Enter into a covenant binding on the land and any transferees thereof that no buildings would be erected on these sites, but they did not think that such a course was necessary, because in their view, it was perfectly clear that the law would not permit the land being built upon, or the Anson Road houses being further lengthened or extended.

(iv) That while our Clients had no desire to lengthen or extend the Anson Road houses, they cannot be compelled to shorten them, and if the object of the Trust was to ensure that they should be shortened, such object will not be attained by the Back Lane being situate where the Trust has asked for it;

(v) That the undertakings given by the Improvement Trust during the enquiry evidence the fact that the Improvement Trust recognise that if the whole site is to be re-developed in future, the natural position for the Back Lane will then be adjoining the factory buildings of Messrs. Fraser & Neave Ltd., while if Back Lanes be now made where the Improvement Trust have sited them, when re-development does take place, there must be a new Back Lane, and a new sewer, and the cost of making up the present proposed Back Lanes, and of sewering them, as well as the cost of the reconstruction of the rear portions of the four Selangor Street and Trafalgar Street houses, will have been thrown away.

We are instructed to point out, in addition, that if a new Back Lane and sewer are made later on, it is scarcely likely that the cost of these or of any part thereof, will be paid by the Improvement Trust, but will have to be borne by our Clients.

5. Where, as in the present case, a block of property belongs to one owner, and the Improvement Trust refuses to allow such owner to deal with his property in the manner which he thinks most beneficial not only to himself, but also to the public, our Clients consider that the action of the Trust does not tend to inspire confidence in them, nor to promote good feeling between them and the owner concerned.

6. In the present case, our Clients feel the position very acutely, the more especially because, although they had no desire to lengthen the Anson Road houses, or to build on the vacant land which would result from the pulling down of the Trafalgar Street and Selangor Street houses, they found that in many cases buildings with a greater depth from the road front than that possessed by the Anson Road houses, have been allowed by the Trust to other property owners.

7. In the circumstances, in addition to the request made in Paragraph 2 hereof, we are instructed to enquire whether it may not even now be possible for something to be done to prevent what our Clients feel is the infliction of an injustice upon them. They have no desire to be obstructive, nor to hinder in any way the improvement of the Town - on the contrary, they are anxious to assist in every way in their power, to promote such improvement, if due consideration for their interests is shown to them, but the property

===== Page 41 =====
is charity property, no funds are at present available for rebuilding the block as a whole, and in the circumstances, our Clients feel that their proposals for the improvement of the property ought not to have received the treatment that has been accorded to them, and which they think might not have been accorded to others if the property had belonged to them.

8. Our Clients will be obliged if you will bring this letter to the notice of His Excellency the Governor in Council as soon as possible.

We have the honour to be,
Sir,
Your obedient servants,

S/d. Sisson & Delay.

The Honourable,
The Colonial Secretary,
S.S.

42. On the 29th November 1938, the Colonial Secretary wrote Messrs. Sisson & Delay in reply a letter reading as follows:

"Singapore, 29th November, 1938.

"Gentlemen,

In reply to your letter dated the 28th September 1938, on the subject of the back lane scheme for the Anson Road houses owned by your clients, I am directed to inform you that the question has been considered by the Governor in Council, and to state that it is regretted that no variation of the order already made can be allowed.

2. I am to say also that your request to be allowed to see the Report made by Mr. Gorsuch to the Governor in Council cannot be granted.

I am, Gentlemen,
Your obedient servant,

S/d. H.P.Bryson
f. Colonial Secretary,
Straits Settlements.

Messrs. Sisson & Delay,
Singapore."

43. The Owners contend that in the circumstances disclosed in the foregoing paragraphs of this Petition the action of the Trust in insisting upon the backlanes applied for to the Governor and the action of the Governor in Council in ordering that the backlanes so applied for should be laid out was inequitable, unjust and prejudicial to the welfare of the Town of Singapore.

AND the Owners pray that directions

===== Page 42 =====
May be given to the Governor in Council to revoke his said Order and to substitute another Order in its place to the effect that the backlane suggested by the Owners should be laid out for the purposes of serving the Anson Road houses so that the Owners may be allowed to improve the Anson Road houses in the manner contemplated by the Plans submitted by them to the Municipal Commissioners as hereinbefore recited.

AND Your Petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray, etc. etc.

Dated this 2nd day of April, 1940.

Lovon Aley

Solicitor for the Petitioner
Anson Building
Singapore

===== Page 43 =====
Dated 2nd April, 1940.

PETITION OF ALKAFF & CO.

-re-

THE ANSON ROAD BACKLANE SCHEME.

LIST OF PAPERS ACCOMPANYING PETITION:

A.C.

Sisson & Delay,
Singapore.

===== Page 44 =====
1. Affidavit of Shaik Yahya bin Ahmad Afifi, General Manager of the business of the Petitioners, dated 13th May 1935. Pages 1 - 5.
Exhibiting:
(a) Copy correspondence relating to the first Anson Road Backlane Scheme, pages 6 - 27.
(b) Copy correspondence relating to the first Anson Road and other Backlane Schemes, pages 28 - 55.

2. Affidavit of W.S. Ebden ("the First Commissioner") dated 20th May 1936, pages 56 - 66,
and Exhibit "W.S.E3 (a) and (b)", pages 67 - 83
(in the Petition referred to as "the said Exhibit").

3. Affidavit of Leonard Langdon Williams (the Manager of the Improvement Trust) dated 3rd June 1936 and the Exhibits "L.L.W.2" and "L.L.W.3" therein referred to, pages 84 - 89.

4. Affidavit of the said Shaik Yahya bin Ahmad Afifi dated 8th August 1936, pages 90 - 94.

5. Copy Letter of 17th November 1937 from the Municipal Commissioners to Mr. F.W. Brewer, page 95.

6. Copy Letter of 20th November 1937 from Mr. F.W. Brewer to the Municipal Commissioners, page 96.

7. Copy Gazette Notification No. 3047 dated 22nd October 1937 for the second Back- [POSSIBLY MISSING]

===== Page 45 =====
Lane Scheme for the Anson Road Property ..... 97

8. Copy Notice of 12th November 1937 given by L.H. Gorsuch (the Second Commissioner) to the Petitioners. ..... 98

9. Copy letter of 8th December 1937 written by Messrs. Sisson & Delay to Mr. L.H. Gorsuch (the Second Commissioner) ..... 99 - 100

10. Copy letter of 13th December 1937 from L.H. Gorsuch (the Second Commissioner) to Messrs. Sisson & Delay ..... 101

11. Copy letter of 29th December 1937 written by Messrs. Sisson & Delay to The Hon. The Attorney General of the Straits Settlements. ..... 102 - 104

12. Copy letter of 31st December 1937 from the Attorney General to Messrs. Sisson & Delay. ..... 105

13. Copy letter of 20th May 1938 from L.H. Gorsuch (the Second Commissioner) to Messrs. Sisson & Delay ..... 106

14. Copy letter of 24th May 1938 from L.H. Gorsuch (the Second Commissioner) to Messrs. Sisson & Delay ..... 107

15. Copy letter of 11th July 1938 from L.H. Gorsuch (the Second Commissioner) to Messrs. Sisson & Delay ..... 108

16. Copy Gazette Notification No.2712 of 16th September 1938 reciting the Order of the Governor in Council for the Back-lanes to serve the Anson Road Property. ..... 109

===== Page 46 =====
IN THE HIGH COURT OF THE STRAITS SETTLEMENTS
SETTLEMENT OF SINGAPORE.

Originating Summons
No. 14 of 1935.

In the Matter of Ordinance No. 135
(Municipal) and of the Singapore
Improvement Trust 1927.

and

In the Matter of

(a) An Order of the Governor-in-Council
dated the 24th October 1934
(No. 5048/34).

(b) An Order of the Governor-in-Council
dated the 7th November 1934
(No. 3748/34).

(c) An Order of the Governor-in-Council
(No. 5523/34).

I, SHAIKH YAHYA BIN AHMAD AFIFI of Nos. 70 & 70A The
Arcade, Singapore, Justice of the Peace and General Manager,
of the business of the firm of Alkaff & Co., of the same
address make oath and say as follows:

1. The firm of Alkaff & Co. (hereinafter referred to as
"the Owners") are the Owners within the meaning of Section
3 of Ordinance No. 135 (Municipal) (hereinafter referred to
as "the Municipal Ordinance") of the properties following viz:

(a) Lot 159 Town Subdivision XXIII Singapore or part
thereof together with the houses thereon erected
known as Municipal Nos. 94 to 100 (both inclusive)
Anson Road, Nos. 1, 2 & 3 Trafalgar Street and Nos.
3, 5 & 7 Selangor Street Singapore (hereinafter
referred to as "the Anson Road Property").

===== Page 47 =====
Facts relating to the Anson Road Property.

2. (a) At a date not known to this deponent, but probably at some time in May or June 1934, the Singapore Improvement Trust, acting under the provisions of Section 144 of the Municipal Ordinance and Section 2 (3) of the Singapore Improvement Ordinance 1927 (hereinafter referred to as "the Improvement Ordinance"), requested the Governor-in-Council to order that a back lane affecting the Anson Road property should be laid out and that a certain part of the Anson Road property might be acquired for the purposes of such back lane.

(b) The Governor-in-Council thereafter appointed one L.T.S. Ebden, who was then the Commissioner of Lands and also a Member of the Board known as "the Singapore Improvement Trust" and a member of the Executive Council (hereinafter referred to as "the Commissioner"), to enquire and report in the case.

(c) On or about the 27th June 1934, the Commissioner wrote to the Owners informing them of the proposal to lay out the back lane affecting the Anson Road Property above referred to and enquiring if they had any objection thereto. A copy of such letter appears in the copy correspondence exhibited hereto.

(d) Thereafter, the Owners, by their Agents, discussed the proposed back lane with the Manager of the Singapore Improvement Trust (hereinafter referred to as "the Manager") and suggested as an alternative a back lane other than that proposed by the Singapore Improvement Trust.

(e) On the 3rd August 1934, the Commissioner held an enquiry as to the proposed Back Lane and at such enquiry this deponent, on behalf of the Owners, their Architect Mr. Brewer, their Solicitor, and also the Manager attended. This deponent was requested to state the objections of the Owners to the proposed Back Lane, and this deponent, the Architect, and Solicitor of the Owners stated such objections and in some respects the Manager replied thereto or commented thereon, but the case of the Improvement Trust was not stated at the enquiry.

===== Page 48 =====
(f) During the course of the enquiry, it was suggested by the Commissioner that Messrs. Fraser & Neave Ltd., the owners of property adjoining the Anson Road Property, might be interested in acquiring the four houses Municipal Nos. 2 and 3 Trafalgar Street and 5 & 7 Selangor Street forming part of the Anson Road Property, which adjoined their (i.e., Messrs. Fraser & Neave Ltd.'s) property, and that in such event the back lane proposed by the owners, and different from that proposed by the Singapore Improvement Trust, might be agreed to by the Improvement Trust.

(g) The owners, through their solicitors, then approached Messrs. Fraser & Neave Ltd., with the object of ascertaining whether they would be prepared to acquire the said four houses.

(h) At the request of Messrs. Fraser & Neave Ltd., the Commissioner arranged for the Municipal Assessor to value the houses Nos. 2 & 3 Trafalgar Street and 5 & 7 Selangor Street, and this valuation was communicated to Messrs. Fraser & Neave Ltd., and on the 27th August 1934 the solicitors for the owners received a letter from the Commissioner dated 24th August 1934 giving particulars of the valuation above mentioned. The solicitors for the owners replied to such letter on the 28th August 1934 and copies of such letter and reply appear in the copy correspondence exhibited hereto.

(i) From information given to him by the solicitors for the owners, this deponent believes that at some time prior to the 14th September 1934, the Commissioner learned that Messrs. Fraser & Neave Ltd. were not desirous of acquiring the four houses above referred to and on the 14th September 1934, the solicitors for the owners saw the Commissioner, who then informed such solicitor that he proposed to report to the Governor-in-Council recommending that the Back Lane suggested by the Singapore Improvement Trust should be laid out.

(j) Subsequent to the interview of the 14th September 1934 between the Commissioner and the owners' solicitors, correspondence passed between the solicitors for the owners, the Manager of the Improvement Trust, and the Commissioner of which

===== Page 49 =====
Copies appear in the copy correspondence exhibited hereto.

Particulars of the letters forming such correspondence are as follows:

15th Sept 1934 - Letter from the Owners' Solicitors to the Manager.
15th Sept 1934 - Letter from the Owners' Solicitors to the Commissioner.
19th Sept 1934 - Letter from the Owners' Solicitors to the Commissioner.
20th Sept 1934 - Letter from the Manager to the Owners' Solicitors.
24th Sept 1934 - Letter from the Owners' Solicitors to the Commissioner.
24th Sept 1934 - Letters (2) from the Owners' Solicitors to the Manager.
25th Sept 1934 - Letter from the Manager to the Owners' Solicitors.
25th Sept 1934 - Letter from the Owners' Solicitors to the Manager.
27th Sept 1934 - Letter from the Manager to the Owners' Solicitors.
28th Sept 1934 - Letter from the Manager to the Owners' Solicitors.
1st Oct 1934 - Letters (2) from the Owners' Solicitors to the Manager.
12th Oct 1934 - Letters from the Chairman of the Singapore Improvement Trust to the Owners' Solicitors.
13th Oct 1934 - Letters from the Owners' Solicitors to the Chairman of the Singapore Improvement Trust.

(k) On the 7th November 1934 the Governor-in-Council ordered that a back lane affecting the Anson Road Property should be laid out and that certain land as shown coloured pink in a plan deposited at the office of the Colonial Secretary, Singapore, should be acquired for the purpose of the Back Lane and such Order was published in the Straits Settlements Government Gazette of the 16th November 1934, being Gazette Notification No. 2614, a copy of which Notification appears in the copy correspondence exhibited hereto.

(l) On the 14th December 1934 the said Order of the Governor-in-Council was registered in the Registry of Deeds.

===== Page 50 =====
At Singapore under Ordinance No. 148 (Registration of Deeds) in Volume 865 Nos. 114 and 115.

9. If the Orders of the Governor in Council referred to in paragraphs 2, 3 & 4 hereof are quashed, I verily believe that the Owners will benefit and that the Singapore Improvement Trust and the public will not be prejudiced. The grounds upon which this statement is based appear:

(a) As regards the Anson Road Property in

(1) the letter of the 15th September 1934 from the Owners' Solicitors to the Manager, and

(2) the letters of the 15th, 19th and 24th September 1934 from the Owners' Solicitors to the Commissioner.

10. The fact that the Commissioner, the Officer appointed to enquire and report in the case on each of the Back Lane Schemes above referred to, was a member of the Improvement Trust may have been knowledge available to the public, but this Deponent did not and to the best of his knowledge, information and belief the Owners did not have such knowledge until in or about the month of November 1934.

11. The bundle of documents now produced and shown to me and marked "Y.A." is the copy correspondence referred to herein.

SWORN to at Singapore this 13th day of May, 1935.

S/d. Shaik Yahya bin Ahmad Afifi.

Before me,

S/d. T.O. Seng

A Commissioner to take Oaths &c.

===== Page 51 =====
1. Correspondence Relating to the Anson Road Property.

===== Page 52 =====
Gentlemen,

I have the honour to inform you that an application to the Governor in Council under Section 144 of Ordinance No. 135 (Municipal) and Section 2(z) of the Singapore Improvement Ordinance 1927, affecting Lot 159 Town Subdivision XXIII (94/100) Anson Road, 3/7 Selangor Street and 1/3 Trafalgar Street, has been referred to me for report and that I am prepared to hear the objections to the making of an order under the sections aforesaid at any time on or before the 27th July 1934.

A plan showing the proposals of the Municipal Commissioners is open to inspection at the Land Office during office hours.

I have the honour to be,

Gentlemen,

Your obedient servant,

S/d. Illegible

F. Commissioner of Lands, S.S.

To

Syed Abdulrahman bin Shaik Alkaff,
Syed Aboobakar bin Shaik Alkaff,
Syed Omar bin Shaik Alkaff,
Syed Abdulgadir bin Shaik Alkaff,
Syed Hassan bin Shaik Alkaff,
Syed Hassan bin Abdullah Alkaff,
(Trustees of Syed Shaik bin Abdulrahman Alkaff deceased)
c/o Alkaff & Co., 70 & 70A The Arcade.

===== Page 53 =====
L.0.749/34.

Dear Mundell,

About the proposed back lane off Anson Road etc., my Valuer and the Municipal Assessor agree with him, and consider that a fair present valuation of 2 and 3 Trafalgar Street and 5 and 7 Selangor Street, approximate area 5,400 square feet, would be $18,000.

This valuation was put up at the suggestion of Hastie and it does not bind me down to anything officially.

It is merely offered as a possible basis, in case Fraser & Neave and yourselves care to arrange a sale, which should then dispose of the back lane difficulty.

It occurs to me, however, that Fraser & Neave might then find themselves confronted with part charges in respect of the back lane on which they would abut (between Trafalgar Street and Selangor Street). I'm sure I don't know off hand. These things are always a mystery to me. But no doubt the Singapore Improvement Trust or the Municipal Commissioners could, if necessary, at once clear up the point for you, or for Hastie.

I am sending a copy of this letter to Hastie.

Yours sincerely,

S/d. W.S. Ebden

H.D. Mundell Esq.,
Messrs. Sisson & Delay.

===== Page 54 =====
Singapore, 28th August, 1934.

Dear Ebden,

L.O. (15) in 749/34.

Anson Road Property

Thank you for your letter of the 24th instant which I received yesterday. I am sending a copy to my clients.

I believe that they put the value of the property at considerably more than $18,000.

Yours sincerely,

S/d. H. D. Mundell.

W.S. Ebden, Esq.

Land Office.

===== Page 55 =====
Singapore, 15th Sept. 1934.

Sir,

L.O. 12 in 749/34.
Anson Road Property
Lot 159 T.S. XXIII

We have the honour to refer to the interview which the writer had with you yesterday in connection with the above, and to the information which you then gave to him as to your recommendations in respect of the back lane proposed for the property.

2. The writer understood from you, perhaps wrongly, that one of your reasons, if not your principal reason, for recommending that the proposed back lane should be situate in the position specified by the Improvement Trust, was that our clients were unwilling to fall in with the suggestions made by the Improvement Trust for reserving, as open spaces, the sites of the four houses behind the Anson Road houses which would necessarily be pulled down if the site of the back lane is fixed as suggested by our clients.

3. At the enquiry, our clients' Attorney, Shaik Yahya bin Ahmad Afifi said that he was not prepared to give an unqualified undertaking in respect of the reservation as open spaces of the sites of the four houses above referred to, but we are instructed to draw your attention to the fact that if the site of the back lane is fixed where our clients suggest, the Municipal bye-laws make it incumbent upon our clients to reserve:

(a) In respect of corner sites, an open area of at least one-third of the area built upon, i.e. the open space must be at least one-fourth of the whole site, and

(b) In respect of sites other than corner sites, an open area of at least one half of the area built upon, i.e. the open space must be at least one third of the whole site.

4. If the plan be referred to by you, you will see that if the back lane be situate as requested by our clients, then as a result of the application of the Municipal bye-laws, our clients must

reserve

===== Page 56 =====
Reserve as open spaces the sites of those portions of the four houses which must be pulled down and which lie between the houses in Anson Road, other than the houses abutting on Trafalgar Street and Selangor Street. As regards these two last mentioned houses, our clients must reserve, as open spaces, the remaining portions of the sites of the houses to be pulled down, although in the cases of these two houses, they could erect on such sites the new bathroom accommodation.

5. In effect, therefore, if the back lane be situated as suggested by our clients, almost the whole of the area upon which the houses that must be pulled down now stand would be reserved as open spaces, and the suggestions of the Improvement Trust in this respect would be practically complied with.

6. We shall be obliged if you will put this aspect of the case before the Governor in Council when making your recommendations, and in this connection, we would also ask you to be good enough to draw attention to the cases of the houses in Mohamed Sultan Road referred to in paragraph 4 of our letter to you of the 21st August last.

7. We believe that the Improvement Trust is willing, if ultimately the back lanes are situated as suggested by them, to allow the back lane serving the Trafalgar Street and Selangor Street houses to be 12 feet in width only—not 15 feet. Our clients would be glad to have an assurance in this respect.

We have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servants,

S/d. Sisson & Delay

The Commissioner of Lands.

===== Page 57 =====
Sir,

Anson Road Property - Lot 159 T.S. XXIII

We have the honour to refer you to the enquiry held on the 3rd August last before the Commissioner of Lands with reference to the back lane proposed to the above property.

2. You will probably recollect that at such enquiry, Mr. Afifi referred to houses in Mohamed Sultan Road, off River Valley Road, which had a greater depth than 120 feet between the front of the house and the back lane at the back, and we then understood that you stated that these houses had been treated differently, because they had gardens in front.

3. You are no doubt aware that the Commissioner of Lands will probably recommend that the back lane proposed for the Anson Road and adjoining houses is to be situate as suggested by you, notwithstanding the objections raised by our clients, but whatever may be the outcome as regards the Anson Road houses, our clients would be much obliged if you would let them know:

(a) The reasons why it is possible in Mohamed Sultan Road to have houses of such great depth as the depth allowed for the houses there, and

(b) Why a similar depth or a less depth cannot be allowed for the Anson Road houses.

4. In connection with the above, we enclose an extract from our letter to the Commissioner of Lands of the 21st August, which refers to the Mohamed Sultan Road houses in question in case you have not seen a copy of our letter.

5. The information asked for in this letter is not asked for merely as a matter of curiosity, but in order that our clients may form an opinion as to what is the general intention of the Improvement Trust in dealing with backlane schemes.

We have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servants,

L. Langdon Williams, Esq.

===== Page 58 =====
Singapore, 19th September, 1935.

Sir,

Anson Road Property
Lot 159 T.S. XXIII.

We have the honour to refer to our letter of the 15th instant written to you with reference to the above.

2. You will have appreciated from our former letters to you that our clients desire that there should be only one back lane affecting the above property, and that the site of this back lane should adjoin the factory of Messrs. Fraser & Neave Ltd.

3. If however, you find yourself unable to make a recommendation to the Governor in Council in accordance with our clients' desires, we are instructed, on their behalf, to request that the back lane which will separate the Trafalgar Street from the Selangor Street houses, may be made as narrow as possible. Our clients understand that in certain cases back lanes as narrow as 6' in width have been allowed, and they submit that a back lane of this width would meet the requirements of the houses, which the proposed back lane is to serve.

We have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servants,

S/d. Sisson & Delay.

The Commissioner of Lands.

===== Page 59 =====
Sirs,

Anson Road Property - Lot 159 T.S. 28.

I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your letter of the 15th instant regarding Anson Road Property.

With regard to paragraph 3, the two back lanes i.e., Mohamed Sultan Road and Anson Road, are two quite different propositions.

In Mohamed Sultan Road the Trust are dealing with a block of property - Nos. 3 to 17 (with the exception of one house) which is of very fine, well-lit and well ventilated type of dwelling houses of an average depth of 165 feet for 9 houses and 20 feet wide. The Trust's proposition is to curtail this depth to a depth of 120 feet, whereas in the Anson Road property, which is chiefly used for trade and dwelling purposes, the houses are already of an average depth of 100 feet, and the Trust do not propose to interfere with this depth, although it is deeper than is considered desirable for new houses, thus not depriving your clients of any building land from the lot facing Anson Road. It may further be pointed out that owing to the nature of the land at Mohamed Sultan Road there will be an open space in perpetuity behind the reconstructed houses.

Your clients' proposition is to increase the depth of 100 feet to an average depth of 120 feet, so it is considered that the merits of the two lanes are not identical i.e., the Trusts, in one case, propose to decrease what is considered an abnormal depth of a shophouse, whereas your clients wish to increase an already deep depth of a shophouse to what the Trust consider an abnormal depth of 120 feet.

I have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servant,

S/d. L.L. Williams

Manager, S.I.T.

Messrs. Sisson & Delay.

===== Page 60 =====
Sir,

Anson Road Property.
Lot 159 T.S. XXIII.
L.O. 12 in 749/34.

We have the honour to refer to our previous correspondence with you with reference to the above property and the backlane proposed to be made by the Improvement Trust to serve it and the adjoining property.

2. On the 15th instant, we wrote to the Manager of the Improvement Trust a letter with reference to the property, drawing his attention to paragraph 4 of our letter to you of the 21st ultimo, and on the 21st instant, we received from him a reply dated 20th instant. We enclose copies of both these letters for your consideration.

3. As regards the reply of the Manager of the Improvement Trust, our clients have the following observations to make:

(a) The houses in Mohamed Sultan Road Nos. 3 to 17 are rather wider, and have a larger frontage than the Anson Road houses, but most of the first mentioned houses are of three storeys, whereas those in Anson Road are of two storeys only.

(b) Of the Mohamed Sultan Road houses above referred to, only two are shops, whereas all the houses in Anson Road, with one exception, are occupied as shop houses.

(c) Taking the above factors into consideration, our clients submit that the Anson Road houses are practically as well lit and well ventilated as are the houses in Mohamed Sultan Road above referred to, and this would be apparent to any unbiased person who inspected both lots of property.

(d) It will be observed that the Manager of the Improvement Trust does not in his letter in any way deal with the houses in Mohamed Sultan Road, other than Nos. 3 to 17, whereas our letter to you of the 21st ultimo referred in addition to houses in that Road having a length of from 220 feet.

===== Page 61 =====
To 253 feet, notwithstanding that Mohamed Sultan Road is only 36 feet in width, whereas Anson Road is 60 feet wide.

4. In respect of these last mentioned houses, the depth to the backlane will be as stated in our previous letter, and it was particularly to these houses, although they are of much greater width than the Anson Road houses, that our clients wished to draw attention.

5. We have sent to the Manager of the Improvement Trust a copy of this letter.

We have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servants,

S/d. Sisson & Delay.

The Commissioner of Lands.

===== Page 62 =====
Sir,

In view of the recent enquiry by the Commissioner of Lands with reference to the back lane proposed for the houses at Anson Road, Selangor Street, and Trafalgar Street, belonging to our clients Messrs. Alkaff & Co., and of the evidence given at such enquiry, and of the subsequent correspondence between us and the Commissioner of Lands and yourself with reference thereto, our clients would be much obliged if you would give them information with reference to the following:

(a) Is there any scale adopted by the Improvement Trust as basis for town planning in Singapore in respect of back lanes and generally, which lays down rules as to the depth from front to back of buildings with frontages varying from 10 to 20 feet, and does such scale of depth vary according to the frontage?

(b) What factors other than frontage, the width of the road or street to which the frontage lies, and the nature of the buildings proposed to be served, are taken into consideration when a back lane scheme is prepared?

We have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servants,

S/d. Sisson & Delay.

The Manager,
Singapore Improvement Trust.

===== Page 63 =====
Sir,

Anson Road Property
Lot 159 T. S. XXIII.

We have the honour to thank you for your letter of the 20th instant.

2. We have sent to the Commissioner of Lands a copy of our letter to you of the 15th instant and of your reply of the 20th instant with a letter of which we have the honour to enclose a copy for your information.

3. You will note the comments which our clients have made on your letter of the 20th instant in our letter of even date to the Commissioner of Lands, and our clients will be much obliged if you will let them know whether you can give them any further information in respect of the points raised by them.

We have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servants,

S/d. Sisson & Delay.

L. Langdon Williams, Esq.

===== Page 64 =====
Singapore, 25th September, 1934.

No. S.I.T. 690/33.

Sirs,

With reference to your letter dated the 24th September regarding the depth from front to back of buildings with regard to back lanes, I shall be glad if you will kindly inform me whether your clients are referring to planning for unbuilt land or whether to the planning for the built-up portion of the Town.

I have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servant,

S/d. L.L. Williams

Manager, S.I.T.

Messrs. Sisson & Delay.

===== Page 65 =====
Singapore, 25th September, 1934.

Sir,

No. S.I.T. 690/33.

We are in receipt of your letter of even date.

The enquiries made in our letter of yesterday's date were made with reference to land which has been built on, and not to unbuilt on land.

We have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servants,

S/d. Sisson & Delay.

L. Langdon Williams, Esq.

===== Page 66 =====
Singapore, 27th September, 1934.

No. S.I.T. 690/33.

Sirs,

Amson Road Property
Lot 159 T.S. XXIII.

I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated the 24th September enclosing copy of a letter sent by you to the Commissioner of Lands dated 24th September.

I have no further comments to make on paragraphs 3 (a) (b) and (c) of that letter.

As regards 3 (d) and 4, I replied to your queries raised in your letter of 15th instant, with regard to the houses which are affected by the back lane approved for Mohamed Sultan Road. With regard to the other portion of Mohamed Sultan Road namely houses 24 to 29, no back lane has yet been planned for this block of houses. Therefore it is impossible to give you the depth at the present moment that will be planned here.

I have the honour to be,

Sirs,

Your obedient servant,

S/d. L. Langdon Williams

Manager, S.I.T.

Messrs. Sisson & Delay.

===== Page 67 =====
Singapore, 28th September, 1934.

No. S.I.T. 690/32.

Sirs,

I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your letter of the 24th instant and in reply to paragraphs A & B, beg to state that every case is considered on its merits as regards position of a proposed back lane.

I have the honour to be,

Sirs,

Yours obedient servant,

S/d. L. Langdon Williams

Manager, S.I.T.

Messrs. Sisson & Delay.

===== Page 68 =====
Singapore, 1st October, 1984.

Sir,

No. S.I.T. 690/33.

We have the honour to thank you for your letter of the 28th ultimo and for the information contained therein.

2. Our clients were aware that in respect of built-on property, it would be necessary to treat every case on its own merits as regards the position of a proposed back lane, but our letter of the 24th ultimo was written with a view to ascertaining whether, in the consideration of every case on its merits, the Improvement Trust applied, or endeavoured to apply, any scale or rules, such as those referred to in our letter of the 24th ultimo.

3. Our clients assume that the Improvement Trust must have some standards by which they are guided in making their plans for back lanes, and even if such standards are ideals, and not obtainable in every case, owing to the necessity for each case being treated on its merits, the knowledge as to what the standards are would assist our clients.

4. In view of the above, our clients would be much obliged if you could give them a further reply to our letter of the 24th ult., and furnish them with the information suggested in paragraph 3 above.

We have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servants,

S/d. Sisson & Delay.

The Manager,
Singapore Improvement Trust.

===== Page 69 =====
Singapore, 1st Oct. 1934.

Sir,

Anson Road Property.

We have the honour to thank you for your letter of the 28th ultimo with reference to the above.

We have sent a copy to our clients.

We have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servants,

S/d. Sisson & Delay.

The Manager,
Singapore Improvement Trust.

===== Page 70 =====
Singapore, 12th October, 1934.

No. S.I.T. 690/33.

Gentlemen,

With reference to your letter of the 1st October, I have the honour to state in the ordinary shop house lot when the standard width is 16 feet by Municipal Regulation the Trust considers that approximately 85 feet is the most desirable depth for the back lane.

This depth was fixed with joint regard to light, ventilation and economy.

Departures from it are of course necessitated by special trade needs, by ownership, and by the spacing of existing roads.

I have the honour to be,

Gentlemen,

Your obedient servant,

S/d. W. Bartley

Chairman

Singapore Improvement Trust.

Messrs. Sisson & Delay.

===== Page 71 =====
Singapore, 13th October, 1934.

Sir,

No. S.I.T. 690/58.

We have the honour to thank you for your letter of the 12th instant with reference to the above.

We have sent a copy to our clients.

We have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servants,

S/d. Sisson & Delay.

The Chairman,
Singapore Improvement Trust.

===== Page 72 =====
STRAITS SETTLEMENTS GOVERNMENT GAZETTE, NOVEMBER 18, 1934.

No. 2614 Ordinance No. 135 (Municipal) and The Singapore Improvement Ordinance, 1927.

Whereas the Chairman of the Singapore Improvement Trust has requested the Governor in Council under the provisions of Section 144 of Ordinance No. 135 (Municipal) and Section 2 (2) of the Singapore Improvement Ordinance, 1927, to order that a back lane of a width not exceeding 20 feet be laid out for the block bounded by Anson Road, Selangor Street, Rembau Street and Trafalgar Street, Singapore, and that certain lands be acquired for that purpose as shown coloured pink in the certified plan deposited at the Colonial Secretary's office, Singapore.

AND WHEREAS the Governor in Council has received a report on the proposal from an officer appointed to enquire and report, to wit Mr. W.S. Ebden, Commissioner of Lands, Straits Settlements.

And Whereas the Governor in Council has duly considered this application.

Now, therefore, it is hereby ordered by the Governor in Council that a back lane of a width not exceeding 20 feet be laid out for the block bounded by Anson Road, Selangor Street, Rembau Street and Trafalgar Street, Singapore in accordance with the plan, certified by the Chairman Singapore Improvement Trust, Singapore and deposited in the office of the Colonial Secretary, and that the lands affected by the aforesaid proposal, namely the lands coloured pink in the said plan, be acquired by the Singapore Improvement Trust for the purpose of providing the aforesaid back lane.

E.V.G. Day

Clerk of Councils.

Council Chamber,
Singapore, 7th November, 1934 (No. 3748/34).

===== Page 73 =====
4. CORRESPONDENCE RELATING TO ALL THREE PROPERTIES.

===== Page 74 =====
Sir,

1. Back Lane Scheme affecting properties at Anson Road, etc.
   Your Ref. No. L.O. (15) in 749/84.

2. Back Lane Schemes affecting properties at South Bridge Road and Erskine Road.
   Your Ref. No. L.O. C.S. 1069/1934.

3. Back Lane Scheme affecting properties at Waterloo Street, Noordin Lane, Albert Street, and Bencoolen Street.

We have the honour to refer to our correspondence with you in respect of the above three matters.

2. (a) As regards the first scheme above referred to, an enquiry was held by you on the 3rd August last, and adjourned, and we corresponded with you thereon on the 21st August, suggesting (see paragraph 6 of our letter) that the enquiry should be continued, so that our clients and their technical advisers might put before you their reasons for their objections. This letter pointed out that Mr. Afifi, our clients' Manager, would be absent from Singapore for some time, and that our clients would prefer that the enquiry should not be re-opened until his return.

(b) We had further correspondence with you on the matter and on the 13th September wrote you that Mr. Afifi had returned to Singapore, and that this case (amongst others) could be proceeded with.

(c) On the 14th September you informed the writer that you proposed to recommend to the Governor-in-Council that the site of the Back Lane should be situate as suggested by the Improvement Trust, and although we had further correspondence with you in connection with the matter, you apparently did not see fit to alter your recommendation, and we understand that the Back Lane as proposed by the Improvement Trust (except as regards the width of the Back Lane serving the Trafalgar Street and Selangor [POSSIBLY MISSING CONTENT].

===== Page 75 =====
3. (a) As regards the second scheme referred to at the enquiry held by you on the 3rd August with reference to the Anson Road Property, we suggested that the enquiry with reference to this scheme should proceed, but Mr. Langdon Williams objected to such a course being adopted, and consequently the enquiry was not held on that date.

(b) We wrote to you on the 21st August regarding the matter, setting out our clients' objections, and suggesting that our clients should be given an opportunity of appearing before you at a later date. We also wrote to you subsequently (as mentioned in 2 (b) supra), and the writer saw you on the 14th September when you said you would not require any further statement of our clients' objections but gave us no intimation as to when the enquiry would be held.

(c) In this case, the Back Lane Scheme as formulated by the Improvement Trust has been gazetted.

4. (a) As regards the third scheme referred to above, we wrote you on behalf of our clients on the 25th September last, setting out their views with reference to the proposed scheme, but we do not think that you ever replied to this letter.

(b) In this case also, the Back Lane Scheme as proposed by the Improvement Trust has been gazetted.

5. We are instructed on behalf of our clients to ask you to be good enough to let us know what is the procedure which you adopt pursuant to the provisions of Section 144 of Ordinance No. 135 (Municipal), as amended by Section 2 of the Singapore Improvement Ordinance 1927, having particular regard to the fact that under the first mentioned Section you are the officer appointed to enquire and report in each case. Our clients' enquiry is not made idly but because they desire to know exactly what procedure is being followed by you in such cases. In this respect, we are instructed to point out that

(a) As regards the Scheme affecting the Anson Road Pro-

===== Page 76 =====
Per the property, our clients corresponded with you before the enquiry was held and adjourned, and we did so afterwards.

(b) As regards the other two Schemes, we wrote to you with reference to both, and our clients would like to know whether their and our letters in this connection were discussed with the Improvement Trust either viva voce or in writing.

6. Our clients also ask us to enquire whether you would be good enough, if you can, to supply them with copies of the Reports made by you to the Governor-in-Council in respect of each of the above enquiries, and to let us know whether copies of the Reports in question are supplied to the Improvement Trust.

We have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servants,

S/d. Sisson & Delay.

The Commissioner of Lands.

===== Page 77 =====
Gentlemen,

With reference to your letter dated 26th November, 1934, in the matter of L.O.749/34, L.O.1069/34 and L.O.1139/34, I have the honour to inform you that there is no particular procedure prescribed, and the form of the report is in practice left to the discretion of the reporting officer. In practice, I issue notices to all believed to be interested, inviting any objections within a reasonable time, but I have considered belated representations as well. Objections are referred by me to the S.I.T. for any comments. I then make a precis of both the objections and the comments and forward it as part of my report for the Governor in Council. It is not my practice to send a copy of my report to the S.I.T.

2. I am unable on my own authority to furnish you copies of such reports.

I have the honour to be,

Gentlemen,

Your obedient servant,

S/d. W.S. Ebden

Commissioner of Lands, S.S.

Messrs. Sisson & Delay.

===== Page 78 =====
Singapore, 8th December 1934.

Sir,

(22) in L.O. 749/1934 - Back Lane Schemes.

We have the honour to thank you for your letter of the 4th instant, received yesterday, and are sending a copy to our clients.

2. We note that you cannot, on your own authority, furnish us with copies of your reports. Would you be good enough to inform us to whom we should write, so that you may obtain permission to send us copies.

We have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servants,

S/d. Sisson & Delay.

The Commissioner of Lands.

===== Page 79 =====
Singapore, 13th December, 1934.

Gentlemen,

Back Lane Schemes.

With reference to para. 2 of your letter dated 8th instant, I have the honour to inform you that it is open to you to address the Hon. the Colonial Secretary.

I have the honour to be,

Gentlemen,

Your obedient servant,

S/d. W.S. Ebden

Commissioner of Lands, S.S.

Messrs. Sisson & Delay.

===== Page 80 =====
Singapore, 18th December, 1934.

Sir,

Back Lane Schemes.

L. O. (35) in 749/34.

We have the honour to thank you for your letter of the 18th instant received today, and observe.

We have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servants,

S/d. Sisson & Delay.

The Commissioner of Lands.

===== Page 81 =====
Sir,

Back Lane Schemes.

We have the honour to inform you that we have, on behalf of our clients Messrs. Alkaff & Co., been in correspondence with the Commissioner of Lands, with reference to the practice and procedure adopted by him in making reports to the Governor-in-Council on back lane schemes undertaken pursuant to the provisions of Section 144 of Ordinance No. 135 (Municipal), and in the course of such correspondence, we asked him if he could supply our clients with copies of the reports made by him to the Governor-in-Council in respect of:

(a) A back lane scheme affecting properties at Anson Road, Selangor Street and Trafalgar Street.

(b) A back lane scheme affecting properties at South Bridge Road and Erskine Road.

(c) A back lane scheme affecting properties at Waterloo Street, Noordin Lane, Albert Street and Bencoolen Street.

2. In reply to our request in this connection, the Commissioner of Lands informed us that he was unable on his own authority to furnish us with copies of his reports, but he later told us in reply to an enquiry in this connection that it would be open to us to address you in the matter.

3. In the circumstances, we have the honour to enquire whether you would be good enough to allow the Commissioner of Lands to supply our clients with copies of the reports in question.

We have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servants,

S/d. Sisson & Delay.

The Honourable,

The Colonial Secretary,

S.S.

===== Page 82 =====
Singapore, 31st December, 1934.

No. 9279/1934.

The Colonial Secretary of the Straits Settlements has the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the 27th December, 1934 and to inform you that the contents are receiving attention.

Messrs. Sisson & Delay.

===== Page 83 =====
Sir,

Back Lane Schemes.

We have the honour to refer you to our letter of the 27th December last in connection with the above matter, and your acknowledgment thereof on the 31st December last.

2. We have the honour to enquire whether we may now be supplied with copies of the reports referred to in our former letter.

We have the honour to be,
Sir,

Your obedient servants,

S/d. Sisson & Delay.

The Honourable,
The Colonial Secretary,
S.S.

===== Page 84 =====
Singapore, 9th February, 1935.

No. 9279/1934.

Back Lane Schemes.

The Colonial Secretary of the Straits Settlements has the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your communication dated 7th February, 1935.

Messrs. Sisson & Delay.

===== Page 85 =====
Singapore, 14th February, 1935.

Sir,

Back Lane Schemes.

We have the honour to inform you that we have been instructed by Messrs. Alkaff & Co., the owners, or representatives of the owners, of the several houses affected by the Back Lane Schemes specified in the Government Gazette Notifications hereunder mentioned, to take proceedings against the Governor in Council, and Mr. W.S. Ebden, the Officer appointed to enquire and report in connection with each Scheme, with the object of obtaining Prerogative Writs of Certiorari, and possibly of Prohibition, in order that such Back Lane Schemes may not be proceeded with further.

2. The Gazette Notifications referred to above are:

(1) No. 2493 which appeared on p.3070 of the Government Gazette issued on the 2nd November 1934.

The properties affected by this Scheme in which our clients are interested are Houses Nos. 299 to 309 South Bridge Road, and 6, 8, 10 and 14 Erskine Road.

The Order in Council was registered in the Registry of Deeds in Volume 864 No. 137 on the 20th November 1934.

(2) No. 2614 which appeared on pp. 3167 and 3168 of the Government Gazette issued on the 16th November 1934.

The property affected by this Scheme in which our clients are interested, is the property at Anson Road, Trafalgar Street and Selangor Street, known as Lot 159 Town Sub-division XXIII.

The Order in Council was registered in the Registry of Deeds in Volume 865 Nos. 114 and 115 on the 14th Dec. 1934.

(3) No. 2699 which appeared on p.3228 of the Government Gazette issued on the 23rd November 1934.

The properties affected by this Scheme in which our clients are interested, are Houses Nos. 228 to 240 Waterloo [POSSIBLY MISSING].

===== Page 86 =====
Street, 1 to 16 Noordin Lane, 43 to 73 Albert Street, and 184 to 188 and 196 Bencoolen Street.

The Order in Council was registered in the Registry of Deeds in Volume 865 No. 164 on the 22nd December 1934.

3. In each case, the grounds upon which the application for certiorari and/or prohibition will be founded are:

(a) That the Officer appointed under Section 144(1) of Ordinance No. 135 (Municipal) to inquire and report, was not an independent or impartial Officer, inasmuch as he was at all material times a member of the Singapore Improvement Trust.

(b) That the Officer appointed as aforesaid did not conduct the inquiry fairly and in accordance with the principles of justice, and that he did not give to the owners affected an opportunity of contesting relevant evidence or statements made by or on behalf of the Singapore Improvement Trust prejudicial to the views of such owners.

(c) That in view of the grounds specified in (a) and (b) supra, the provisions of Section 144(1) of Ordinance No. 135 (Municipal) were contravened, the report of the Officer appointed to inquire and report was not a report within the meaning of the said Section upon which the Governor in Council could proceed to make an order under such Section, and the order of the Governor in Council, and all proceedings subsequent thereto and consequent thereon are invalid, and ought to be quashed.

4. We have been instructed to inform the Singapore Improvement Trust and the Municipal Commissioners of the proposed proceedings, and we are writing them accordingly.

5. We have advised our clients that the Public Authorities Protection Ordinance has no application to proceedings of the nature now proposed to be instituted by us on behalf of our clients and we shall be glad to hear that you agree with this view.

===== Page 87 =====
6. We have already discussed the proposed proceedings with the Hon. The Attorney General, with the object, if possible, of avoiding any controversy as to the title of the proceedings, and the manner in which the Governor in Council ought to be sued, and we are sending to him a copy of this letter. We propose to serve the necessary process on the Clerk to the Council.

7. As regards the proceedings against Mr. W.E. Ebden, we understand that he has left the Colony on furlough, and having regard to the nature of the proposed proceedings, we are instructed to enquire whether the Government would, during his absence from the Colony, be prepared to arrange for acceptance of service of process on his behalf.

We have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servants,

S/d. Sisson & Delay.

The Honourable,

The Colonial Secretary.

===== Page 88 =====
Singapore, 14th February, 1935.

Sir,

Back Lane Schemes.

We have the honour to enclose herewith a copy of a letter we have today written to the Honourable the Colonial Secretary with reference to the above matter.

We have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servants,

Sd. - Sisson & Delay.

The Honourable
The Attorney General,
S.S.

===== Page 89 =====
Singapore, 14th February, 1935.

Sir,

Back Lane Schemes.

We have the honour to enclose, for your information, a copy of a letter we have today written to The Hon. The Colonial Secretary with reference to the several Back Lane Schemes specified in such letter, and to state that our clients will be glad to have your assurance that no further steps will be taken in respect of such Schemes, until the proceedings referred to in our letter have been adjudicated upon by the Court.

2. Our clients will be obliged if you will let us have a reply to this letter at your early convenience.

We have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servants,

Sd.- Sisson & Delay.

The President,
Municipal Commissioners.

===== Page 90 =====
Singapore, 14th February 1885.

Sir,

Back Lane Schemes.

We have the honour to enclose, for your information, a copy of a letter we have today written to The Hon. The Colonial Secretary with reference to the several Back Lane Schemes specified in such letter, and to state that our clients will be glad to have your assurance that no further steps will be taken in respect of such Schemes, until the proceedings referred to in our letter have been adjudicated upon by the Court.

2. Our clients will be obliged if you will let us have a reply to this letter at your early convenience.

We have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servants,

Sd. - Sisson & Delay.

The President,

The Singapore Improvement Trust.

===== Page 91 =====
Singapore,
14th February, 1935.

No. 9279/34.

Back Lane Schemes.

The Colonial Secretary of the Straits Settlements has the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your communication dated 14th February 1935.

Messrs. Sisson & Delay.

===== Page 92 =====
Singapore, 15th February 1935.

No. 60/35.

Gentlemen,

Back Lanes.

I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of a copy of the letter which you have addressed to the Colonial Secretary on this matter.

2. Perhaps you will wait for a reply from the Colonial Secretary before you institute proceedings.

3. As to service on Executive Council by service on the Clerk, it seems to me that such service is not strictly legal if the fact that the Board of Trade is not properly served by service on its Secretary is a correct analogy.

4. If, however, there was no question of involving the Governor in Council in costs, possibly no objection would be raised to such service, but so far I have no instructions from Government in this matter.

5. You are of course aware that the Governor in Council is not a legal entity. The Executive Council is merely advisory and His Excellency is not bound to accept the advice given.

I have the honour to be,

Gentlemen,

Your obedient servant,

Sd. - P.A. McElwaine,
Attorney-General.

Messrs. Sisson & Delay.

===== Page 93 =====
Singapore, 15th February, 1935.

Sirs,

Back Lane Schemes.

I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your letter of the 14th instant and to inform you that the matter referred to is receiving attention.

I have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servant,

Sd.- E. Galistan,

f. Municipal Secretary.

Messrs. Sisson & Delay.

===== Page 94 =====
Dear Sirs,

Back Lane Schemes.

The Singapore Improvement Trust have handed us your letter dated the 14th February addressed to them under the above heading. In view of the proceedings which you propose to take, our clients instruct us that they themselves will take no further steps in respect of any such scheme without notice to you. Nothing has yet been done by our clients in respect of any such scheme beyond making some preliminary surveys. It must not be taken that our clients admit any of your allegations.

Yours faithfully,

Sd. Braddell Brothers.

Messrs. Sisson & Delay.

===== Page 95 =====
Singapore, 16th February, 1935.

Sir,

Back Lane Schemes.

We have the honour to refer to our letter to you of the 14th instant in connection with the above.

2. There were errors in such letter.

Gazette Notification No. 4293 should have been Gazette Notification No. 2493, and the properties affected by the Scheme referred to in this Notification should include No. 5 Erskine Road and should omit Nos. 10, 12, and 14 Erskine Road.

I have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servants,

S/d. Sisson & Delay.

The Honourable,

The Colonial Secretary.

===== Page 96 =====
Singapore, 16th February, 1935.

Sir,

Back-Lane.

No. 60/35.

We have the honour to thank you for your letter of the 15th instant in connection with the above matter.

2. We do not propose to institute proceedings before we hear from the Colonial Secretary.

3. We are much obliged to you for drawing our attention to the matters referred to in paragraphs 3 and 5 of your letter. We had rather come to the conclusion that it would not be necessary to serve the Executive Council at all, inasmuch as, in our view, the Governor in Council really means the Governor acting after having taken the advice of the Executive Council.

4. We shall probably write you again after we have heard from the Colonial Secretary.

5. We find that there were errors in our letter to the Colonial Secretary.

Gazette Notification No. 4293 should have been Gazette Notification No. 2493, and the properties affected by the Scheme referred to in this Notification should include No. 5 Erskine Road and should omit Nos. 10, 12 and 14 Erskine Road.

We have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servants,

S/d. Sisson & Delay,

The Honourable,

The Attorney General.

===== Page 97 =====
Singapore, 16th February, 1935.

Dear Sirs,

Back-Lane Schemes.

We thank you for your letter of yesterday's date and observe.

We are, Dear Sirs,
Yours faithfully,
S/d. Sisson & Delay.

Messrs. Braddell Brothers.

===== Page 98 =====
Sirs,

Back Lane Schemes.

With reference to your letter dated the 14th February, 1935, under the above heading, I have the honour to invite reference to Section 2 (3) of the Singapore Improvement Ordinance No. 13 of 1930 from which it will be noted that the powers conferred under Section 144 of Ordinance No. 135 (Municipal) are vested in the Singapore Improvement Trust.

I have the honour to be,

Sirs,

Your obedient servant,

S/d. J.C.S. White.

f. Municipal Secretary.

Messrs. Sisson & Delay.

===== Page 99 =====
Singapore, 21st February, 1935.

Sir,

Back Lane Schemes.

We have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your letter of the 20th instant which will be brought to the attention of our Mr. Mundell when he returns from Kuala Lumpur next week.

We have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servants,

S/d. Sisson & Delay.

The Municipal Secretary.

===== Page 100 =====
Singapore, 9th March, 1935.

Gentlemen,

With reference to your letter dated 27th December, 1934, requesting that the Commissioner of Lands may be permitted to supply your clients, Messrs. Alkaff & Company, with copies of his reports to the Governor in Council in respect of certain back lane schemes, I am directed to inform you that it is regretted that copies of such reports cannot be supplied.

I am, Gentlemen,

Your obedient servant,

S/d. Shelley

f. Acting Colonial Secretary,
Straits Settlements.

Messrs. Sisson & Delay.

===== Page 101 =====
IN THE HIGH COURT OF THE STRAITS SETTLEMENTS
SETTLEMENT OF SINGAPORE.

Originating Motion
No. 14 of 1935.

In the Matter of Ordinance No.135
(Municipal) and of the Singapore Improvement Ordinance 1927.

and

Ex parte

In the Matter of
(a) An Order of the Governor in Council dated the 24th October 1934 (No.5048/34),

(b) An Order of the Governor in Council dated the 7th November 1934 (No.3748/34),

(c) An Order of the Governor in Council dated the 14th November 1934 (No.5523/34).

I, William Sydenham Ebden, make oath and say as follows:

1. I live at 28 Malcolm Road, Singapore, and am the Commissioner of Lands, S.S., and have held that office since 21st March, 1932, with the exception of a period of leave from 18th January, 1935, inclusive, to 24th October, 1935, inclusive.

2. I have been a member of the Legislative Council from 4th April, 1932, inclusive, up to date (barring the period of leave above mentioned).

I have never been a member of the Executive Council. Paragraph 2(b) of the affidavit of Shaikh Yahya bin Ahmat Afifi, filed in this matter, is incorrect in that respect.

3.(i) As Commissioner of Lands, S.S., my duties are to advise Government in land matters.

But as Commissioner of Lands, S.S., I was also in 1934 the following:

Member of Legislative Council.

Collector of Land Revenue, Singapore (duties multifarious, including Coupon Office, Rubber Regulation).

Registrar of Deeds, Singapore.

Chairman of the Rural Board, Singapore.

Registrar of Mohammedan Marriages, Singapore.

===== Page 102 =====
Vice-Chairman of the Film Appeal Board.
Member of the Board of Trustees of the Singapore Improvement Trust.
Conservator of Forests, Singapore.
Member of the Mohammedan and Hindu Endowments Board.
Member of the Investment Committee, King Edward VII's School of Medicine.
Member of the Building Loans Committee.
Member of the Stadium Committee.
Member of certain ad hoc Committees.

An Officer with these duties is bound, if only by the force of necessity, to keep an open mind.

(ii) For none of these duties did I, or do I, draw any extra pay. So that I have no financial interest in the Singapore Improvement Trust. As a Member of that Board I am, subject to law, concerned with the improvement of Singapore, for the public good, and not for my own advantage.

(iii) As Collector of Land Revenue, Singapore, I have to make awards under Ordinance No. 49 (Land Acquisition). Many of these acquisitions are done for the Singapore Improvement Trust. Up to date, since I have been Collector of Land Revenue, Singapore (from March 1932), no award of mine, whether for the Singapore Improvement Trust or otherwise - and there have been very many - has resulted in a hearing, by reference, in the Supreme Court, and there has never been any objection on the ground of partiality.

(iv) As the Officer making such awards, I have legal status, so that no one can complain that in legal theory I am partial. It is only by the fact that it happens that I am not by Ordinance appointed as the Officer to make back lane reports as well that any objection to my partiality in legal theory in that respect has been possible.

(v) As evidence that I am in fact impartial, though a Member of the Singapore Improvement Trust, I submit two examples:-

===== Page 103 =====
(a) While I was on furlough, the Singapore Improvement Trust had occasion to acquire certain lands belonging to the Singapore Harbour Board, of which I am not a Member. The respective valuers of the two bodies could not agree as to price. These bodies then decided to await my return and to accept my valuation. I made my valuation, and it was higher than that put up initially on behalf of the Singapore Improvement Trust.

(b) In 1934, the Singapore Improvement Trust had occasion to submit to the Governor in Council a declaration under Part V of the Singapore Improvement Trust Ordinance (Insanitary Buildings). Government referred to me for my remarks as Commissioner of Lands, apart from my capacity as a Member of the Singapore Improvement Trust. I wrote accordingly a memorandum, which concluded with these words:

"Subject to any given houses being actually insanitary, then:

(i) If proposed action is legal,
   (a) proceed,
   or (b) although legal, disapprove, because inhumane.

(ii) If proposed action is illegal,
   (a) amend law and proceed,
   or (b) disapprove, because inhumane.

(iii) If proposed action is humane,
   (a) if legal, proceed,
   or (b) if illegal, amend law and proceed.

(iv) If proposed action is inhumane, disapprove, because the question of legality or illegality fades out in the greater issue."

This was an impartial attitude, which did not commit itself to the views of the Singapore Improvement Trust.

===== Page 104 =====
(vi) The Commissioner of Lands is normally, like myself, an Officer who has had considerable experience as a District Officer, and by training, tradition and principle a District Officer is concerned with the interests of the "people". In Singapore the nearest thing to a District Officer is the Commissioner of Lands, and in matters like back-lane schemes it is natural for Government to refer to him as a suitable Officer, who

(a) has experience of land matters and
(b) has the interests of the "People" at heart.

4. Schemes for the creation of back-lanes were formerly initiated in Singapore by the Municipal Commissioners in accordance with the provisions of Section 144 of Ordinance No. 135 (Municipal).

It has for many years (as long as can be remembered, and at least 20 years) been the practice that any report which the Governor in Council might require under Subsection (i) of that section has been, at the direction of the Governor in Council, supplied in Singapore by the Commissioner of Lands, and by no one else.

5. In 1927 on the coming into force of the Singapore Improvement Ordinance (No. 10 of 1927) the initiation of all such schemes for back-lanes was entrusted to the Singapore Improvement Trust both in respect of the Municipal area and of the Rural Board area of the Island of Singapore. (There have been no such back-lane schemes for the Rural Board area, because spacing and sewering requirements are naturally appropriate in the first instance to town, rather than to suburban and country, conditions).

The procedure adopted, however, continued to be that laid down in Section 144 of Ordinance No. 135 (Municipal), as modified by Section 2(3) of the Singapore Improvement Ordinance, and I crave leave in this respect to call attention to the provisions of Section 2 of the Singapore Improvement Trust.

===== Page 105 =====
Ordinance, 1927.

6. Upon the coming into force of the Singapore Improvement Trust Ordinance, 1927, reports required under Section 144 of Ordinance No. 135 (Municipal) in conjunction with Section 2(3) of the Singapore Improvement Ordinance continued to be furnished by the Commissioner of Lands.

7. The Singapore Improvement Trust Board at that time did not include the Commissioner of Lands among its members but was constituted as then provided in Section 5 of the Ordinance.

8. In 1930 the Singapore Improvement (Amendment) Ordinance, 1930, was enacted and Section 4 of that Ordinance amended Section 5 of the principal Ordinance by including the Commissioner of Lands among the members of whom the Singapore Improvement Trust Board was thenceforward to consist.

9. The Objects and Reasons published with the Bill when it was gazetted in the Government Gazette of the 8th May, 1930, contained the following observations on clause 4 of the Bill:

"It is proposed that the Commissioner of Lands should become an ex-officio member of the Trust.

"At present there is no representative of the Board Rural on the Trust, although the Trust controls the Rural Board area".

The President of the Municipal Commissioners, Singapore, had been a member of the Board since its formation in 1927.

10. After this amendment of the Ordinance in 1930 the practice was continued of calling on the Commissioner of Lands to furnish any reports which might be required by the Governor in Council under Section 144 of Ordinance No. 135 (Municipal) in conjunction with Section 2(3) of the Singapore Improvement Ordinance.

11. Records in the office of the Commissioner of Lands show that, between 1st April of 1929 and 31st October of 1933, 35 such reports were called for, of which 18 were called for during the time I have been Commissioner of Lands and were

===== Page 106 =====
Supplied by myself. From 1st November 1933 to date, 56 further such reports have been called for (including these 3) and have been supplied by myself or by an Acting Commissioner of Lands.

No other objection has hitherto ever been raised by anybody to the Commissioner of Lands furnishing such reports.

12. Since 1930 it has been knowledge common to everybody (since it is part of the statute law of this Colony) that the Commissioner of Lands was a member of the Singapore Improvement Trust.

13. The practice of the Singapore Improvement Trust in connection with the preparation of Back Lane Scheme is as follows: The technical staff of the Singapore Improvement Trust prepare the scheme, which is then placed before the Chairman. If the Chairman approves the scheme, it is then circulated among the members of the Board. If the Scheme is approved by the members on such circulation, it is formally passed at the next meeting of the Board and is then submitted to the Governor in Council with a request that an order be made by him in accordance with the scheme.

This practice was carried out in the three cases now in question.

In no case, apart from taking part in the procedure notified above, have I taken any personal part in the preparation of the schemes which are the subject of these proceedings or of any other scheme.

My state of mind when called upon to undertake an inquiry is unbiassed, independent and impartial. Up to this point I am committed to an a priori view that there should be a back lane, and to nothing more, and I have not concerned myself with imagining objections, for in the inquiry it will be my duty to consider, for submission to the Governor in Council, the merits and demerits of the scheme. My a priori acceptance of the view that there should be a back lane cannot be construed as a prepossession prejudicial to the inquiry, for none of the

===== Page 107 =====
Parties deny that the Singapore Improvement Trust is using its powers legally in deciding to recommend a back lane. They merely object (if they do object) to the way in which it interferes with their property. The inquiry, therefore, resolves itself into a consideration of the objections by owners, and into a question of the best solution in the circumstances having regard to the advantage of the public. I have no preconceptions as to details, and my relations with the executive officers of the Singapore Improvement Trust are not such as to create any embarrassment over disagreeing with their views, which I not infrequently do, not only over back lane schemes, but over other matters as well.

14. (i) When called upon to inquire and report under subsection (1) of Section 144 of Ordinance No. 135 in conjunction with Section 2(3) of the Singapore Improvement Ordinance, my practice has been to give notice to the owners of all lands affected by the scheme. Such notice is given by letter in a form a copy of which is attached to this affidavit and is marked "W.S.E.1."

(ii) I then receive orally or in writing any observations which such owners put forward and make thereon such further enquiries as I think necessary. When I consider that these enquiries have placed me in a position to make a report, I do so, but send with it to the Governor in Council a summary of all letters or other documents containing or bearing on the objections put forward. It is a summary of objections and of the remarks in turn of the manager, Improvement Trust.

(iii) It has been my practice (which accords with that followed by my predecessors) to include in my report my own recommendations as to the scheme, although the instructions received by me from the Governor in Council do not require such a recommendation and the decision is in fact and in law made not by myself but by the Governor in Council. As stated in subparagraph (ii), the Governor in Council when making this decision has before him a summary of the objections.

===== Page 108 =====
which have been put forward and of all documents relevant thereto. My recommendations have sometimes been to modify the original proposals of the Singapore Improvement Trust, and these modifications have sometimes been accepted by the Singapore Improvement Trust and approved by the Governor in Council. In particular, in the case of the "Anson Road Property" now in question, in order to suit the convenience of the present applicants, I recommended the reduction in width of a back lane from 15' to 7'6", and this amendment was incorporated in the order. Again, there was the modification, to suit these same applicants, referred to in (iii) of paragraph 15 below under scheme (d).

15. (i) The present proceedings concern three Back-lane Schemes which were all put forward by the Singapore Improvement Trust in 1934 and which have been referred to by the applicants as (a), (b) and (c), to wit.

(a) concerning their Anson Road Property,
(b) concerning their South Bridge Road Property, and
(c) concerning their Waterloo Street Property; save that on page 1 of their affidavit (a) and (b) have been transposed.

16. I have prepared and hereby certify as correct information based on my files and those of the Colonial Secretary's Office giving in chronological order all relevant facts up to the granting of the orders in each case by the Governor in Council under subsection (i) of Section 144 of Ordinance No. 135.

This information is attached to the present affidavit in three separate bundles which are marked respectively:-
W.S.E. 3(a) and (b) as to scheme (a) "the Anson Road Property"

===== Page 109 =====
17. With regard to paragraph 10 of the affidavit filed in these proceedings on behalf of the applicants by Shaikh Yahya bin Ahmad Afifi, I crave leave to call attention to the facts that:

(a) The fact that the Commissioner of Lands is ex-officio a member of the Singapore Improvement Trust has been part of the Statute Law of this Colony since 1930, being contained in section 5 of the Singapore Improvement Trust Ordinance 1927 as amended by the Singapore Improvement (Amendment) Ordinance 1930, and that, therefore, in my submission, no party may plead ignorance of this fact.

(b) The said Shaikh Yahya bin Ahmad Afifi, throughout the enquiries in connection with all three of the schemes (a), (b), and (c), as also of scheme (d), was represented by Mr. H.D. Mundell, an advocate and solicitor of the Supreme Court and senior partner of the firm of Messrs. Sisson & Delay; and that the said Shaikh Yahya bin Ahmad Afifi should therefore have been given information by his legal advisers of the fact set out in paragraph (a) above if it was relevant to any objection which might have been taken; and that, in any case, the knowledge of his legal advisers should be taken to be the knowledge of the said Yahya bin Ahmad Afifi. Further, in 1934, before these back lane orders were applied for by the Singapore Improvement Trust, Mr. Mundell, on other business, appeared before the assembled Board of the Singapore Improvement Trust, while I was there, and so had actual as well as constructive notice of my being a [POSSIBLY MISSING]

===== Page 110 =====
Trustee;

(c) that the said Shaikh Yahya bin Ahmad Afifi has been concerned in many other similar back-lane scheme inquiries, one before the year 1930 and 30 since, in all of which the Commissioner of Lands was the reporting officer;

(d) that throughout the enquiries in connection with schemes (a), (b), (c) and (d) or any of them up to and including the dates when the respective Orders were made thereon by the Governor in Council the said Shaikh Yahya bin Ahmad Afifi or his legal advisers never in any way took any objection to my appointment by the Governor in Council and that they should therefore be taken to have waived any such objection if it was in fact open to them to have made it.

18. I crave leave to refer to the documents which are exhibits 3, 4 and 5 of this affidavit and to say that I was in fact throughout all the transactions in question impartial in these matters, that I heard what both sides wished to put forward, and that I placed before the Governor in Council all materials proper and available to enable the Governor in Council to come to a just decision in the matter.

In respect of the grounds set out in the Notice of Motion in this matter for quashing the Orders here in question I say in particular as follows:

(1) and (2). That I acted in fact impartially and that there was nothing in my position as a member of the Singapore Improvement Trust which made me otherwise than impartial in the exercise of the duties which I carried out under Section 144 of Ordinance No. 135 (Municipal);

(3) that with reference to the "Anson Road" property the case for both sides was discussed so far as

===== Page 111 =====
Was possible and necessary in the presence of both. In addition, I submit that there is no statutory authority allowing the owners to put forward their own proposals and that, although I nevertheless communicated such proposals to the Governor for his consideration in Council, I was neither authorised nor required to consider such proposals or to report thereon;

SWORN at Singapore this 20th day of May, 1936.

Before me,

Sd/- Lim Koon Teck

A Commissioner for Oaths.

===== Page 112 =====
Exhibit "W.S.E. 3(a) and (b)" referred to in the affidavit of W. S. Ebden, Commissioner of Lands, S.S. as to Scheme (a) - The Anson Road Property.

===== Page 113 =====
THE "ANSON ROAD" PROPERTY.

The present information is arranged, so far as possible, to meet point by point - i.e. "(a)", "(b)", "(c)" etc. - para. 2 of the applicants' affidavit.

(a)

26.4.1934: The Chairman, Singapore Improvement Trust, wrote to the Colonial Secretary asking for an Order by the Governor in Council for the laying out of a back lane in the enclosed plan (2) in L.O. 749/34.

(b) 3.5.1934: On reference to me I minuted:

"The Governor in Council, if he thinks fit, should appoint an officer to inquire into and report upon the application."

22.5.1934: I was appointed.

(Applicants' "(b)":

My initials are not "L.T.S."

I have never been a Member of the Executive Council.

(c) 27.8.1934: The only owners interested, the present applicants, were notified in the usual form that I was prepared to hear objections to the making of an order at any time on or before the 27th July, 1934, and that a plan showing the proposals was open to inspection at the Land Office.

(Applicants' "(c)": No particular remark)

===== Page 114 =====
(d) (Applicants' remarks): No particular remarks.

(e) 29.6.1934 - The applicants wrote to me as follows:

"With reference to your letter No. L.O.749/84 of the 27th instant, the above houses are comprised in Settlement dated 6th March 1924, of Syed Shaik Alkaff. The title is freehold.

We object to the present order as according to the plan the proposed back lane will be Nos. 1 Trafalgar Street and 3 Selangor Street in respect of the Anson Road houses, and in respect of Nos. 2 and 3 Trafalgar Street and 5 and 7 Selangor Street a 15 feet back lane will be taken from the middle of these houses.

Nos. 1, 2 and 3 Trafalgar Street are a few feet below the road level and in case of very heavy rains these houses are flooded. They are occupied as dwellings and are very often vacant. Furthermore, we understand that the foundation in this locality is very bad. If these houses are raised to the road level it might be necessary to raise the first floor as well as the roof which will entail considerable expense.

You will see from the plan that all the above houses which are owned by us comprise nearly half of the block and that the other half belongs to Messrs. Fraser & Neave Ltd.

For all these reasons we therefore suggest that the whole of Nos. 3 Trafalgar Street and 7 Selangor Street be taken for the proposed back lane instead of Nos. 1 Trafalgar Street and 3 Selangor Street, so that the Anson Road houses can be extended to the back lane.

17.7.1934: The Manager, Improvement Trust, after reference to him by me of this proposal by the applicants, minuted to me thus:

"Messrs. Alkaff's request would mean too great a building depth from Anson Road and would also prevent the sewering of the Anson Road houses until they were re-built, but the main objection is that the building depth would be far too great if the lane were placed as requested."

19.7.1934: I wrote to the Colonial Secretary enclosing a copy of the applicants' letter of 29.6.1934 and a [POSSIBLY MISSING].

===== Page 115 =====
Copy of the Manager, Improvement Trust's minute of 17.7.34, and I recommended that the order applied for by the Chairman, Singapore Improvement Trust, should be made.

20.7.34: - The applicants now wrote me a further letter, this:

"With reference to our letter of the 29th ultimo, we have the honour to add that if our request contained therein is not complied with, we wish you to appoint a day and time so that we together with our Architect and our Solicitor may appear to support our objections."

25.7.34: - I quoted this letter in full to the Colonial Secretary and added: "I do not propose to comply with the request, and do not consider that there is any reason for me to alter my recommendation of 19th instant.

It is possible, however, that the Governor in Council may consent to hear in person any further representations from Messrs. Alkaff & Co. or from their Architect and Solicitor, before finally making an order."

30.7.34: - As it seemed to me that there was still a possibility of making a concession in favour of the applicants, I requested the Colonial Secretariat to withhold action pending a further report, and stated that I was arranging an interview with the objectors' representatives etc. (Mr. E.V.G. Day, a Secretariat Officer, had suggested to me that the lots facing Trafalgar Street and Selangor Street might be unduly truncated).

3.8.34: - Accordingly, there appeared before me at the same time, for discussion, the Manager, Improvement Trust, Mr. Mundell, Mr. "Alkaff", and Mr. Brewer. The objectors

===== Page 116 =====
Objectors put in the following statement, which was discussed:

1. We ask for the back lane to be moved to run along the boundary of Fraser & Neave Factory.

2. This will add to the depth of the Anson Road front which is the valuable frontage.

3. The increased depth of the site facing Anson Road will be an advantage as owing to the bad nature of the foundations any new building on this site will require reinforced concrete piling and this would not be economical for less than a four (4) storey building. Therefore a new building being four stories in height would have to be designed as a block of small flats with lock-up shops below as this would reduce the number of staircases required and make much more economical planning.

With the altered site it is not intended to build ordinary shophouses.

4. The present houses facing Trafalgar Street and Selangor Street are liable to flooding and the Trafalgar Street buildings are very difficult to let.

5. The back lane if put in the portion shown by the Improvement Trust would only leave the sites facing Trafalgar Street and Selangor Street about 66' 6" deep which is a very un-economical depth even on a good site as it would only enable two rooms to be provided on each floor of a new shophouse type building.

6. The two rooms will require the same size kitchen, bathroom and W.C. to be provided on each floor as would be the case if the sites were larger and three rooms could be provided on each floor.

7. If the Back Lane were moved to the boundary of Fraser & Neave's factory the existing houses facing Trafalgar Street and Selangor Street dividing the houses facing Anson Road from the back lane would be demolished forthwith.

8. This would enable sewer connections to be put in to the existing old buildings facing Anson Road if required.

The Manager, Improvement Trust, repeated this argument of 17.7.34. To meet the objectors, he suggested special arrangements for open space, but Mr. "Alkaff" would not commit himself to such a compromise.

(Applicants' "(e)")

===== Page 117 =====
(Applicants' "(e)" :- The allegation "the case of the Improvement Trust, was not stated at the enquiry" is incorrect).

(f) I suggested at this meeting that if Messrs. Fraser & Neave would buy the portion between their land and the cross lane proposed by the Singapore Improvement Trust, there would be a solution. Mr. Mundell said he would enquire of Messrs. Fraser & Neave.

(Applicants' "(f)" :- The statement "in such an event the back lane proposed by the owners and different from that proposed by the Singapore Improvement Trust might be agreed to by the Improvement Trust" is incorrect.

The proposal was to leave the main land as proposed by the Singapore Improvement Trust, to delete the short lane at right angles, and to ask Messrs. Fraser & Neave if they would acquire the land between their holding and the main lane).

(g) The same day Mr. Mundell wrote to me to say he had approached Mr. Hastie of Messrs. Fraser & Neave.

8.8.34: - I replied that if Messrs. Fraser & Neave acquired the 4 lots in question, that should dispose of all difficulties. I asked that the matter might be expedited, as I had to make my report to Government.

21.8.34: - Mr. Mundell thanked me for my letter of 8.8.34 and stated that he had written to Mr. Hastie. He also sent me, on the same date, a more formal letter, which I now quote:

"We have the honour to write to you with reference to the enquiry held on the 3rd instant in respect of the proposals of the Improvement Trust for a backlane affecting the above property.

2. You will recollect that at the hearing of the enquiry

===== Page 118 =====
Enquiry: You suggested that our clients should approach Messrs. Fraser & Neave Ltd. to ascertain if they would be willing to acquire four of the houses affected by the proposals of the Improvement Trust. On our clients' behalf, we approached Messrs. Fraser & Neave Ltd. regarding this matter, but up to the present, we have received no reply from them. Our clients believe the features of the proposed acquisition involve questions of principle, on which they would like a decision, hence our writing to you.

3. You will recall that our clients' objections to the Improvement Trust's proposals were as follows:

(a) The principal value of the property affected lies in the frontage to Anson Road; the frontages to Selangor Street and Trafalgar Street are much less valuable than that to Anson Road.

(b) If the backlane is constructed on the site proposed by the Improvement Trust, our clients will be left with sites facing Trafalgar Street and Selangor Street that will be most uneconomical, as they will only be about 64 feet deep, or, if the backlane between the properties is reduced to 12 feet in width, only about 66 feet in depth. Such sites will therefore only permit two rooms on each floor, requiring the same sized kitchen, bathroom, and W.C. as would be necessary if the sites were larger and could accommodate three rooms on each floor.

(c) The foundations of the houses in Trafalgar Street and Selangor Street are not good, and should rebuilding become necessary later, the sites will probably be useless due to their small size and the high cost of proper foundations.

(d) If the backlane were moved to the boundary of Messrs. Fraser & Neave's factory, the existing houses facing Trafalgar Street and Selangor Street, which divide the houses facing Anson Road from the backlane, could be demolished immediately. This would enable sewer connection to be installed to the existing buildings facing Anson Road, if required.

(e) The increased depth of the site facing Anson Road, resulting from the backlane being situated as suggested in (d) above, would be an advantage in the event of any new building on the Anson Road site.

(f) The Anson Road houses are easy to let, whereas those facing Trafalgar Street and Selangor Street are difficult to let, particularly because they are liable to flooding, and the floor level of the Selangor Street houses is below road level.

===== Page 119 =====
4. Our clients understand that the objections of the Improvement Trust to the backlane being situated adjoining Messrs. Fraser & Neave's Factory are founded on the assumption that to allow a shophouse (having a frontage of 16' or thereabouts only) a depth of more than 85' is bad town planning, and that the reason why it is bad town planning is that any building which has only a 16' frontage, and a greater depth than 85', tends to become insanitary the more the depth of the house exceeds 85'. If it is true that if the backlane is situate where the Improvement Trust suggest, the depth of the houses fronting Anson Road will be approximately 100', but our clients wish us to point out that similar shophouses in Mohamed Sultan Road, i.e., those Nos. 1 and 2, 3 and 4, and 5 to 17 have a length from 100' to 124', and other dwelling houses in the same road (with court in front varying from 19' to 30' in depth) have a length to the backlane from 220' to 258', notwithstanding that Mohamed Sultan Road is only 36' in width, whereas Anson Road is 60' wide, and most of our clients' houses fronting Anson Road are more than 16' wide.

5. Our clients would like to know the grounds upon which it is stated that a building having a 16' frontage should be, or tend to be, insanitary if its length from the front to the backlane exceeds 85'. They are advised by their architect that there is no reason whatever why a house having such a frontage should be insanitary, even if it were 140' in length, and the maximum length of our clients' houses fronting Anson Road would not exceed 140' if the backlanes were put where our clients suggest that it should be.

6. We have written you this letter so that our clients' contentions may not be lost sight of in the event of Messrs. Fraser & Neave Ltd. failing to make any offer for the property, and in such an event, our clients would be glad if the enquiry could be continued so that their technical advisers might have an opportunity of putting before you their reasons for the advice given to our clients.

7. We should add that our clients' manager Mr. Afifi will be absent from Singapore for about ten days next following Friday, the 24th instant, and consequently, our clients would prefer that the enquiry should not be re-opened till his return.

This letter was considered by me, but my view was that it added nothing material to the points of this particular case, that, whatever examples were put up, the Manager, Improvement Trust's objection to too great length held good, and that

===== Page 120 =====
The Trafalgar Street and Selangor Street houses would, by the scheme, be no worse than they now were, but rather the reverse.

Applicants' (g): No particular remarks.

(h) 23.8.34: - At Mr. Hastie's suggestion, the Land Office (by my Head Bailiff and Valuer) valued this strip. The valuation was $18,000, and the Municipal Assessor agreed with it.

24.8.34: - I communicated the figure to Mr. Mundell and to Mr. Hastie as a possible basis of settlement.

28.8.34: - Mr. Mundell wrote to me: "Thank you for your letter of the 24th instant which I received yesterday. I am sending a copy to my clients. I believe that they put the value of the property at considerably more than $18,000."

(Applicants' (h): The Applicants do not mention that the Land Office took pains to make a valuation so as to facilitate settlement, which valuation it was that was checked and agreed to by the Municipal Assessor).

(i) 30.8.34: - Mr. Hastie wrote to me as follows:

"Many thanks for your letter of the 24th instant and copy of your letter of the same date to Mundell.

I put these before the Directors yesterday and now have their views on the subject.

They have decided that they prefer to develop our site on the opposite side of Trafalgar Street (with frontage to Anson Road) and that, therefore, the site you have in view is not suited to the Company's future requirements.

It was very kind of you to think of the Company and I am obliged to you for your courtesy."

11.9.34: - As the proposed purchase by Messrs. Fraser & Neave was now off, and as I had been convinced by the Manager, Improvement Trusts arguments of 17.7.34 and

===== Page 121 =====
and 3.8.34 that to move the back lane on to 3 Trafalgar Street and 7 Selangor Street would create too big a building depth fronting Anson Road (132 feet more or less). I now sought what else could be done to satisfy the objectors, and I wrote to the Manager, Improvement Trust, asking, if the back lanes were sited as desired by the Singapore Improvement Trust, what exactly the Singapore Improvement Trust were prepared to do by way of payment and reconstruction.

12.9.34: - The Manager, Improvement Trust replied that the Singapore Improvement Trust would pay for No.1 Trafalgar Street and No.3 Selangor Street, including buildings, that the strip between the lane and the backs of the Anson Road houses would have to be paid for by the owners of the houses facing Anson Road (Sect. 144 (13), Ordinance No. 135 (municipal)), that the Singapore Improvement Trust would reconstruct the back of houses 2 and 3 Trafalgar Street and 5 and 7 Selangor Street, and that the Singapore Improvement Trust would do more than the above, as it would construct the side wall and back lane to the houses facing Anson Road.

About this time, Mr. Mundell came to see me and asked how the schemes affecting his clients, and then under consideration were progressing, viz. (a), (b), and (d). ((c) was not yet under consideration). I told him that the result of my enquiries would probably be that I should recommend (a) and (b) as proposed by the Singapore Improvement Trust but that I should uphold in my recommendations.

===== Page 122 =====
His clients' objection as regards (d).

He said that he supposed that the position now was to await orders by the Governor in Council.

(Applicants' "(1)": This passage does not take into account the possibility, and fact, that I had been concerned with ascertaining for my satisfaction what compensation would be paid and reconstruction done by the Singapore Improvement Trust for the applicants).

(j) 14.9.34: I considered that the objectors' lots facing Trafalgar Street and Selangor Street would not lose, rather the reverse, by reason of the scheme, and I addressed Government as follows:

"With reference to C.S.O. 3748/34, I have the honour to inform you that I have now interviewed the Manager, Improvement Trust, and Mr. Alkaff, the latter attended by Messrs. Mundell and Brewer. The objectors put in a further statement, a copy of which is enclosed ((10) in L.O. 749/34).

2. The point in its para. 5 was that suggested by Mr. Day (see minute of 30.7.34), but I do not support it. The shortened depth should still be quite practicable, and with the back lane would be preferable to the present length. Moreover, later reconstruction could utilise double lots for single building.

3. An attempt was made to arrange for the possibility of moving the back lane so as to be contiguous to Messrs. Fraser & Neave's Factory. This would necessitate special building arrangements, but it was clear that Mr. Alkaff would not consent to the suggestions which the Manager, Improvement Trust, put forward with a view to accommodation.

4. I then suggested that perhaps Messrs. Fraser & Neave might care to purchase 5 and 7 Selangor Street, and 2 and 3 Trafalgar Street. A valuation was as a help put up this office, with which the Municipal Assessor agreed. I understand that Mr. Alkaff disputed it. In any case, Messrs. Fraser & Neave, though grateful for the suggestion, had other arrangements in view.

5. Shortly, I believe that, in the circumstances, the proposal of the Singapore Improvement Trust is the best possible one, and I recommend that the order applied for by them be made."

===== Page 123 =====
15.9.1934: I was sent a letter by Messrs. Sisson & Delay, as follows:

"We have the honour to refer to the interview which the writer had with you yesterday in connection with the above, and to the information which you then gave to him as to your recommendations in respect of the back-lane proposed for the property.

2. The writer understood from you, perhaps wrongly, that one of your reasons, if not your principal reason, for recommending that the proposed back-lane should be situated in the position specified by the Improvement Trust, was that our Clients were unwilling to fall in with the suggestion made by the Improvement Trust for reserving, as open spaces, the sites of the four houses behind the Anson Road houses which would necessarily be pulled down if the site of the back-lane is fixed as suggested by our Clients.

3. At the enquiry, our Clients' Attorney, Shaik Yahya bin Ahmad Afifi, said that he was not prepared to give an unqualified undertaking in respect of the reservation as open spaces of the sites of the four houses above referred to, but we are instructed to draw your attention to the fact that if the site of the back-lane is fixed where our Clients suggest, the Municipal by-laws make it incumbent upon our Clients to reserve:

(a) In respect of corner sites, an open area of at least one-third of the area built upon, i.e., the open space must be at least one-fourth of the whole site, and

(b) In respect of sites other than corner sites, an open area of at least one-half of the area built upon, i.e., the open space must be at least one-third of the whole site.

4. If the plan be referred to by you, you will see that if the back-lane is situated as requested by our Clients, then as a result of the application of the Municipal by-laws, our Clients must reserve, as open spaces, the sites of those portions of the four houses which must be pulled down and which lie between the houses in Anson Road, other than the houses abutting on Trafalgar Street and Selangor Street, and as regards these two last-mentioned houses, our Clients must reserve, as open spaces, the remaining portions of the sites of the houses to be pulled down, although in the cases of these two houses, they could erect on such sites the new bath-room accommodation.

5. In effect therefore, if the back-lane is situated as suggested by our Clients, almost the whole of the area upon which the houses which must be pulled down now stand would be reserved as open spaces, and the suggestions of the Improvement Trust."

===== Page 124 =====
Trust in this respect would be practically complied with.

6. We shall be obliged if you will put this aspect of the case before the Governor in Council when making your recommendations, and in this connection we would ask you also to be good enough to draw attention to the cases of the houses in Mohamed Sultan Road referred to in paragraph 4 of our letter to you of the 21st August last.

7. We believe that the Improvement Trust is willing, if ultimately the Back-lanes are situate as suggested by them, to allow the Back-lane serving the Trafalgar Street and Selangor Street houses to be 12 feet in width only - and not 15 feet - our clients would be glad to have an assurance in this respect.

Immediately on receipt of this letter, I sent a written message to the Colonial Secretary's Office, asking that action might be held up yet awhile, again.

I then went carefully into the letter, which I considered added nothing new to the points already taken into account, - except that I was favourably impressed by the suggestion that the back lane between the Trafalgar Street and Selangor Street lots might be narrowed.

19.9.1934: - Messrs. Sisson & Delay again addressed me thus:

"We have the honour to refer to our letter of the 15th instant written to you with reference to the above.

2. You will have appreciated from our former letters to you that our clients desire that there should be only one back-lane affecting the above property, and that the site of this back-lane should adjoin the factory of Messrs. Fraser & Neave Ltd.

3. If however, you find yourself unable to make recommendations to the Governor in Council in accordance with our clients' desires, we are instructed, on their behalf, to request that the back-lane, which will separate the Trafalgar Street from the Selangor Street houses, may be

===== Page 125 =====
made as narrow as possible. Our clients understand that in certain cases back-lanes as narrow as 6' in width have been allowed, and they submit that a back-lane of this width would meet the requirements of the houses, which the proposed back-lane is to serve.

21.9.1934: I addressed the Manager, Improvement Trust, stating that I considered that an amendment on the lines of paragraph 3 of the letter of 19.9.34 would be reasonable. I asked him what the narrowest possible width would be.

24.9.1934: He replied: "Trust would not object to the Government approving a width of 7' 6" at the rear of the houses at Selangor and Trafalgar Streets."

24.9.1934: Messrs. Sisson & Delay wrote to me as follows and I quote also, under it, the letters referred to in their paragraph 3 of this date:

"We have the honour to refer to our previous correspondence with you with reference to the above property, and the back-lanes proposed to be made by the Improvement Trust to serve it and the adjoining property.

2. On the 15th instant, we wrote to the Manager of the Improvement Trust a letter with reference to the property, drawing his attention to paragraph 4 of our letter to you of the 21st ultimo, and on the 21st instant, we received from him a reply dated the 20th instant. We enclose copies of both these letters for your consideration.

3. As regards the reply of the Manager of the Improvement Trust, our clients have the following observations to make:

(a) The houses in Mohamed Sultan Road Nos. 3 to 17 are rather wider, and have a larger frontage than the Anson Road houses, but most of the first mentioned houses are of three storeys, whereas those in Anson Road are of two storeys only.

(b) Of the Mohamed Sultan Road houses above referred to, only two are shops, whereas all the houses in Anson Road, with one exception, are occupied as shop-houses.

(c) Taking the above factors into consideration, our clients submit that the Anson Road houses

===== Page 126 =====
are practically as well lit and well ventilated as are the houses in Mohamed Sultan Road above referred to, and this would be apparent to any unbiased person who inspected both lots of property.

(d) It will be observed that the Manager of the Improvement Trust does not in his letter in any way deal with the houses in Mohamed Sultan Road, other than Nos. 3 to 17, whereas our letter to you of the 21st ultimo referred to in addition to houses in that Road having a length of from 220 feet to 253 feet, notwithstanding that Mohamed Sultan Road is only 36 feet in width whereas Anson Road is 60 feet wide.

4. In respect of these last mentioned houses, the depth to the backlane will be as stated in our previous letter, and it was particularly to these houses, although they are of much greater width than the Anson Road houses, that our clients wished to draw attention.

5. We have sent to the Manager of the Improvement Trust a copy of this letter.

"A"

"Sir,

Anson Road Property - Lot 159 T.S. XXIII.

We have the honour to refer you to the enquiry held on the 3rd August last before the Commissioner of Lands with reference to the backlane proposed to the above property.

2. You will probably recollect that at such enquiry, Mr. Afifi referred to houses in Mohamed Sultan Road off River Valley Road, which had a greater depth than 120 feet between the front of the house and the backlane at the back, and we then understood that you stated that these houses had been treated differently, because they had gardens in front.

3. You are no doubt aware that the Commissioner of Lands will probably recommend that the backlane proposed for the Anson Road and adjoining houses is to be situate as suggested by you, notwithstanding the objections raised by our clients, but whatever may be the outcome as regards the Anson Road houses, our clients would be very much obliged if you would let them know -

(a) The reasons why it is possible in Mohamed Sultan Road to have houses of such great depth as the depth allowed for the houses there, and

===== Page 127 =====
(b) Why a similar depth or a lesser depth cannot be allowed for the Anson Road houses.

4. In connection with the above, we enclose an extract from our letter to the Commissioner of Lands of the 21st August, which refers to the Mohamed Sultan Road houses in question in case you have not seen a copy of our letter.

5. The information asked for in this letter is not asked for merely as a matter of curiosity, but in order that our clients may form an opinion as to what is the general intention of the Improvement Trust in dealing with back lane schemes.

We have &c.

S/d. Sisson & Delay.

"B"

"I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your letter of the 15th instant regarding Anson Road property.

With regard to paragraph 3, the two back lanes i.e. Mohamed Sultan Road and Anson Road, are two quite different propositions.

In Mohamed Sultan Road the Trust are dealing with a block of property – Nos. 3 to 17 (with the exception of one house) – which is of very fine, well-lit and well-ventilated type of dwelling houses of an average depth of 165 feet for 9 houses and 20 feet wide. The Trust's proposition is to curtail this depth to a depth of 120 feet, whereas in the Anson Road property, which is chiefly used for trade and dwelling purposes, the houses are already of an average depth of 100 feet, and the Trust do not propose to interfere with this depth, although it is deeper than is considered desirable for new houses, thus not depriving your clients of any building land from the lot facing Anson Road. It may further be pointed out that owing to the nature of the land at Mohamed Sultan Road there will be an open space in perpetuity behind the reconstructed houses.

Your clients' proposition is to increase the depth of 100 feet to an average depth of 120 feet, so it is considered that the merits of the two lanes are not identical i.e. the Trust, in one case propose to decrease what is considered an abnormal depth of a shop-house, whereas your clients wish to increase an already deep depth of a shop-house to what the Trust consider an abnormal depth of 120 feet."

It appeared to me that the Manager, Improvement Trust, had adequately answered the objectors.

27.9.1934:-

===== Page 128 =====
27.9.1934:

I wrote this letter to Government:

"With reference to C.S.O. 3748/34, I have the honour to inform you that where in the correspondence I have written "Mr. Alkaff" I should have written "the owner's representative". This is a minor point, which does not affect the upshot.

2. Of more importance is this:

The owner's solicitors have written to me since the date of my letter to you of 14th instant without persuading me to alter my recommendation in its paragraph 5, except as regards one matter: They have represented that that part of the proposed back lane which runs at right angles to Messrs. Fraser & Neave's Factory, i.e. between the Trafalgar Street and Selangor Street houses, at present marked on the plan as 15' wide, should be made as narrow as possible. This request seems to me to be very reasonable, and the Manager, Improvement Trust, has now minuted, "Trust would not object to the Government approving a width of 7' 6" at the rear of the houses at Selangor and Trafalgar Streets."

3. I recommend amendment accordingly.

(Applicants' (j): Much of the correspondence referred to appears to have passed between the applicants and the Singapore Improvement Trust and not to have come to me.)

(k) 18.10.1934: The Chairman, Singapore Improvement Trusts, in reply to an enquiry from Government, agreed to the amended lane (7' 6").

7.11.1934: An order was made by the Governor in Council, in accordance with the amendment recommended.

(Applicants' (k): No particular remarks.)

(l) ……………………

(Applicants' (l): No particular remarks.)

========================

I believe that the above facts show that my inquiry was impartial, and also that it and my report were complete.

S/d. W.S. Ebden

COMMISSIONER OF LANDS, S.S.

===== Page 129 =====
IN THE HIGH COURT OF THE STRAITS SETTLEMENTS
SETTLEMENT OF SINGAPORE.

Originating Motion
No. 14 of 1935.

In the Matter of Ordinance No.135
(Municipal) and of the Singapore Improvement Trust 1927

and

In the matter of

(a) An Order of the Governor in Council dated the 24th October 1934 (No.5048/34)

(b) An Order of the Governor in Council dated the 7th November 1934 (No.3748/34)

(c) An Order of the Governor in Council dated the 14th November 1934 (No.5523/34).

I, Leonard Langdon Williams of Municipal Buildings, Singapore, Manager of the Singapore Improvement Trust, make oath and say as follows:

1. I have seen the affidavit sworn and filed by Shaik Yahya bin Ahmad Afifi in these proceedings on the 13th day of May 1935 and the documents exhibited thereto. With regard to the matters therein contained I say as follows:

Anson Road Back Lane.

2. On the 26th day of April 1934 the Singapore Improvement Trust acting under the provisions of section 144 of the Municipal Ordinance and section 2(3) of the Singapore Improvement Ordinance 1927 (which Ordinance is hereinafter referred to as the Improvement Ordinance) requested the Governor-in-Council to order that a back lane should be laid out at the rear of Anson Road. The plan now produced and shown to me marked L.L.W.No.1 is a plan showing the back lane recommended by the Singapore Improvement Trust. The Singapore Improvement Trust made no further recommendations as to any acquisition of any property in this connection but the acquisition of certain property would necessarily follow as the result of a back lane order being made in accordance with section 144 of the Municipal Ordinance.

===== Page 130 =====
3. The Governor in Council thereupon appointed Mr. W. S. Ebden to inquire into and report as to the matter. Certain correspondence took place between Messrs. Sisson & Delay on behalf of certain owners and the Commissioner of Lands.

4. After the request had been made to the Governor in Council as set out in paragraph 2 hereof, Mr. F. W. Brewer came to see me on behalf of the owners of certain properties affected, and I had an interview with him. Neither I nor any other person on behalf of the Improvement Trust ever had any other interview or discussion or correspondence with any of the owners affected prior to the 3rd August 1934, which date is hereinafter referred to.

5. At my interview with Mr. Brewer I made to him an alternative suggestion in respect of the said back lane, and that was as far as the matter got. On the 3rd August 1934 this alternative proposal was not agreed to at the meeting. On the 3rd August 1934 Mr. W. S. Ebden held an inquiry as to the proposed back lane. At such inquiry, I was present on behalf of the Singapore Improvement Trust; Shaik Yahya Afifi, Mr. Mundell, Solicitor of Messrs. Sisson & Delay, and Mr. F. W. Brewer, Architect, were present on behalf of the owners.

6. At the said inquiry on the 3rd August 1934 a discussion took place, and two alternative proposals were put forward by me, one of the said alternative proposals being the one made to me by Mr. Brewer at my previous interview with him. At the said inquiry both these proposals were not agreed to by the owners. One of my suggestions was that the site of four houses behind the Anson Road houses should be thrown into the sites of the houses in front facing Anson Road, and that a greater part of the area could be used as open area for such houses; not as public open spaces but open areas of houses. The suggestion was that this might be done pending the rebuilding of the whole of the block.

===== Page 131 =====
7. I stated the views of the Improvement Trust quite definitely at the interview. With regard to paragraph 2(e) of the said affidavit sworn and filed by Shaik Yahya bin Ahmad Afifi in these proceedings on the 13th May 1938, it is stated that the case of the Improvement Trust was not stated in the inquiry. This is incorrect. The case of the Improvement Trust was not put forward before the Commissioner of Lands in the same formal way as it would have been put in a Court of Law but I clearly expressed the view of the Trust upon the necessity of a back lane and the reasons why the Trust thought it should be in the situation recommended. In fact on that occasion the whole subject was discussed very fully and I ask leave to refer to the letter from Messrs. Sisson & Delay to myself dated the 15th September 1935 being the page numbered 6 of the bundle of correspondence referred to in the said affidavit of Shaik Yahya bin Ahmad Afifi and particularly to paragraph 2 of that letter. Mr. Shaik Yahya bin Ahmad Afifi during the discussion on Anson Road back lane asked me why the houses in Mohamed Sultan Road were treated differently to his in Anson Road. I replied in detail explaining the difference between the two cases, and explaining the attitude and views of the Singapore Improvement Trust with regard to the matter in dispute.

8. After the enquiry on the 3rd August 1934 I had never had anything to do with Shaik Yahya Afifi or Mr. Mundell or Mr. Brewer about the Anson Road back lane scheme apart from the correspondence exhibited to the affidavit filed in these proceedings. On the 11th September 1934, I received from the Collector of Land Revenue a letter of that date to which I replied on the 12th September 1934. Copies of those letters are hereunto annexed and marked L.L.W.No.2 and L.L.W.No.3.

9. On the 21st day of September 1934 the Commissioner of Lands minuted to me on behalf of the Singapore Improvement Trust an inquiry or request suggesting that the proposed back

===== Page 132 =====
Lane at the rear of the Trafalgar and Selangor Streets should be made as narrow as possible owing to their shallow depth. On the 24th September 1934, on behalf of the Trust, I minuted back to the Commissioner of Lands, agreeing to a reduction of the width of the proposed back lane from 15 feet to 7 feet 6 inches. This reduction of width was afterwards included in the order of the Governor in Council.

17. With regard to paragraph 10 of the said affidavit of the said Shaik Yahya bin Ahmad Afifi, I verily believe that prior to the month of November 1934, the said Shaik Yahya bin Ahmad Afifi has been present at a meeting of the Singapore Improvement Trust at which the Commissioner of Lands has also been present and has acted as a member of the Singapore Improvement Trust.

Sworn to at Singapore this 3rd day of June 1936.

Sd/- L. Langdon Williams

Before me,

Sd/- T. O. Seng

A Commissioner to take affidavits etc.

===== Page 133 =====
This is the exhibit marked "L.L.W.No.2" referred to in the affidavit of Leonard Langdon Williams sworn to and filed herein on the 3rd day of June 1936.

Before me,
Sd/- T. O. Seng
A Commissioner for Oaths &c.

L.O.749/1934. URGENT. Singapore, 11th September, 1934.

Sir,

I have the honour to enquire as follows:

1. What (if there is a definition) is the definition of "holding" under Section 14 of Ordinance No.135 (Municipal), and where is it recorded? And in any case, what does it mean?

2. With reference to C.S.O.3748/34, S.I.T. 690/25.10.33, if the back lanes are put as desired, viz. along 1 Trafalgar Street and 3 Selangor Street and between 2 and 3 Trafalgar Street on the one side and 5 and 7 Selangor Street on the other, would you pay for the whole of 1 and 3 Selangor Street including buildings and the strip between the lane and the backs of the Anson Road houses? Also, would you reconstruct the backs of 2 and 3 Trafalgar Street and of 5 and 7 Selangor Street? And would you do any more, or less, than these things?

I have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servant,

Sd/- W. S. Ebden
Commissioner of Lands, S.S.

The Manager,
Singapore Improvement Trust,
Singapore.

===== Page 134 =====
This is the exhibit marked "L. B." referred to in the affidavit of Leonard Langdon Williams sworn to and filed here on the 3rd day of June 1936.

Before me,
Sd/- T. O. Seng
A Commissioner for Oaths &c.

S.I.T. 690/1933.

12th September, 1934.

Sir,

I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your letter L.0.749/1934 dated the 11th instant. As regards:

(1) "Holding" is defined in section 3 of the Singapore Improvement Ordinance, and is as follows:-

"Holding" means any piece or parcel of land held or possessed under an instrument of title, capable of being registered under Ordinance No.148 (Registration of Deeds), relating exclusively thereto, and "original holding" and "final holding" mean respectively, with reference to a scheme which provides for the redistribution of holdings, a holding prior to its amalgamation with other holdings for the purpose of redistribution and a holding allotted in pursuance of redistribution.

(2) The Trust will pay for No.1 Trafalgar Street and No.3 Selangor Street including buildings. (I am presuming you mean No.1 Trafalgar Street and not No.1 Selangor Street as stated in your letter). The strip between the lane and the backs of Anson Road houses will have to be paid for by the owners of the houses facing Anson Road, vide section 144 (13) of the Municipal Ordinance. The Trust will reconstruct the backs of houses 2 and 3 Trafalgar Street and 5 and 7 Selangor Street.

(3) The Trust will do more than the above, as it will construct the side wall and back lane wall to the houses facing Anson Road.

I have the honour to be,
Sir,
Your obedient servant,

Sd/- L. Langdon Williams,

Manager,
Singapore Improvement Trust.

The Hon'ble,
The Commissioner of Lands,
S.S., Singapore.

===== Page 135 =====
In the Matter of Ordinance No.135 (Municipal) and of the Singapore Improvement Ordinance 1927.

and

In the Matter of

(a) An Order of the Governor in Council dated the 24th October 1934 (No.5048/34).

(b) An Order of the Governor in Council dated the 7th November 1934 (No.3748/34).

(c) An Order of the Governor in Council dated the 14th November 1934 (No.5523/34).

I, SHAIKH YAHYA BIN AHMAD AFIFI of Nos.70 & 70A The Arcade, Singapore, Justice of the Peace and General Manager of the business of the firm of Alkaff & Co. of the same address, make oath and say as follows:

1. I have read the affidavit (hereinafter referred to as "the said affidavit") of William Sydenham Ebden filed in these proceedings on the 20th May 1936, and the several Exhibits therein referred to.

2. As regards paragraph 2 of the said affidavit, I was informed that the said William Sydenham Ebden, as Commissioner of Lands, was a member of the Executive Council, and when I swore the affidavit filed in these proceedings on the 13th May 1935, I believed such information, but I cannot now remember who my informant was. I had no intention of mis-stating facts or of misleading the Court when I made my said affidavit of the 13th May 1935 and I should not have made the statement referred to had I not believed it to be true.

3. As regards paragraph 9 of the said affidavit I believe that in Singapore the Commissioner of Lands has generally held the appointment of Chairman of the Rural Board.

4. As regards paragraph 12 and paragraph 17 of the said [POSSIBLY MISSING]

===== Page 136 =====
Affidavit

I say that to the best of my knowledge and belief I first met Mr. W.S. Ebden on the 27th April 1933 and I then knew for the first time that he was the Commissioner of Lands. But I repeat that I did not in fact know that the Commissioner of Lands, or that Mr. Ebden as such, was a Member of the Singapore Improvement Trust till November 1934; and I further say that it was after the 14th November 1934 that I obtained my knowledge, and I did not before the end of November 1934 or thereabouts know that any objection could be raised against Mr. Ebden's acting as the Officer appointed to enquire and report in respect of the Back Lane Schemes, the subject matter of these proceedings.

5. As regards paragraph 17 of the said affidavit, I further say that I have been informed by H.D. Mundell, the Solicitor referred to in such paragraph, and verily believe that it is probable that at some time in 1933 (though at what time he cannot now say) he knew that Mr. W.S. Ebden was Commissioner of Lands in Singapore; and that when in February 1934 he appeared before the Singapore Improvement Trust in proceedings other than those the subject matter of these proceedings, he may have known that Mr. W.S. Ebden was a Member of such Trust and that if he did not then know he might have known that Mr. Ebden was a Member of the Trust on or about the 16th March 1934 because on that day he perused and subsequently checked the minutes of the Meeting of the Improvement Trust which he had attended in February 1934; and Mr. Ebden's name and description as Commissioner of Lands appeared in such Minutes as one of the Members of the Trust present at the Meeting.

But Mr. Mundell has informed me and I verily believe that his knowledge in this respect, if ever realised, was forgotten, and that he did not know or if he knew, he did not remember that Mr. Ebden was a Member of the Improvement Trust until towards the end of November 1934 when he was requested by me to advise upon the possibility of bringing proceedings such as the present proceedings; and at the time of the commencement of his investigations for

===== Page 137 =====
The purpose of advising in this respect: He was informed by me that Mr. Ebden was a Member of the Improvement Trust. I have been further informed by the said H.D. Mundell, and I verily believe that until towards the end of November 1934, when he was investigating the law applicable to the circumstances giving rise to the present proceedings, he did not know that any objection to Mr. Ebden's acting as the Officer appointed to enquire and report could be made.

6. As regards clause (i) of paragraph 14 of the said affidavit, I say that to the best of my recollection, notices in form similar to the exhibit W.E.E.1 were received by me or by Messrs. Alkaff & Co. in respect of every back-lane scheme which affected their property.

7. As regards clause (ii) of paragraph 14 and clause (c) of paragraph 17 of the said affidavit, I admit that as Manager of the business of Messrs. Alkaff & Co., I have been concerned in many enquiries conducted by the Commissioner of Lands with reference to Back-Lane and other Schemes, but I do not agree that all such Back Lane enquiries were similar to the enquiries the subject matter of these proceedings, and to the best of my recollection there was no enquiry other than the enquiries to which these proceedings refer, in which Messrs. Alkaff & Co. ever had cause to be dissatisfied with the manner in which the proceedings were conducted.

9. As regards paragraph 18 of the said affidavit, I crave leave to refer to clause (e) of paragraph 2, to clauses (d) and (e) and the correspondence referred to in clause (e) of paragraph 3, and to clause (d) of paragraph 4 of my said affidavit of the 13th May 1935, and to paragraphs 10, 12 and 13 hereof.

10. With reference to the Minutes relating to the Anson Road Back Lane forming exhibit "W.S.E.2" to the said

===== Page 138 =====
Affidavit I say as follows:-

The Minute of the Manager of the Improvement Trust dated the 17th July 1934 was never communicated to me or to Messrs. Alkaff & Co., and I did not nor did Messrs. Alkaff & Co. nor so far as I know did anyone acting on their behalf ever know that the Manager of the Improvement Trust contended that the granting of Messrs. Alkaff & Co.'s request would prevent or render difficult the sewering of the Anson Road houses until they were rebuilt.

In clause 8 of the Memorandum on the Anson Road Back Lane submitted to the Commissioner of Lands on the 3rd August 1934 (which memorandum was prepared for Messrs. Alkaff & Co. by their architect Mr. Brewer) it was in effect stated that if Messrs. Alkaff & Co.'s request was granted, sewer connections could be put into the existing old buildings facing Anson Road if required, and notwithstanding the Commissioner of Lands statement in his Minute of the meeting of the 3rd August 1934 that the Manager of the Improvement Trust repeated his arguments of the 17th July 1934, and notwithstanding his comment that it was incorrect to say that the case of the Improvement Trust was not stated at the enquiry, I say that at the meeting before the Commissioner of Lands on the said 3rd August 1934 it was never suggested by the Manager of the Improvement Trust that the Anson Road houses could not be sewered until they were rebuilt. Except by the Memorandum aforesaid, the question of their sewering was never to my knowledge raised and it was never discussed at such meeting.

11. I have also read the affidavit of Mr. Langdon Williams filed in these proceedings on the 3rd June 1936.

12. As regards paragraphs 4 and 5 of Mr. Langdon Williams' affidavit I have been informed by Mr. F. W. Brewer and verily believe that Mr. Brewer did not go to see Mr. Langdon Williams on behalf of Messrs. Alkaff & Co., but on behalf of other clients.

===== Page 139 =====
Of Mr. Brewer's and that at such interview a suggestion was made to him by Mr. Langdon Williams that Messrs. Alkaff & Co. should undertake to rebuild the houses facing Anson Road within eighteen months and that when rebuilding they should pull down the four houses immediately behind the Anson Road houses and reserve the sites of such four houses as open spaces. This proposal was discussed at the meeting before Mr. Ebden on the 3rd August 1934 and at such meeting I refused to bind Messrs. Alkaff & Co. to build within eighteen months as I thought it would be unreasonable to do so because it was impossible to foresee what the conditions of trade in Singapore would be then. I do not know of any other proposal put forward by Mr. Langdon Williams in connection with this Back Lane.

13. As regards paragraph 7 of Mr. Langdon Williams' affidavit I say that the case put forward by Mr. Langdon Williams at the hearing before Mr. Ebden on the 3rd August 1934 was that if the back-lane was situate where Messrs. Alkaff & Co. desired it to be the depth of the Anson Road houses would be too great and the houses would therefore be insanitary whereas if the back-lane were situate where the Improvement Trust desired it to be situate the Anson Road houses would not suffer from such defects and I repeat that Mr. Langdon Williams did not refer to any difficulty of sewering the Anson Road houses if the back-lane was situate where Messrs. Alkaff & Co. asked that it should be situate.

14. As regards paragraph 17 of Mr. Langdon Williams' affidavit I crave leave to refer to paragraphs 4 and 5 hereof.

SWORN at Singapore this 8th day of August, 1936.

Sd.- Y. Afifi.

Before me,

Sd.- T. O. Seng.

A Commissioner for oaths &c.

===== Page 140 =====
WWD/G/HS. Municipal Office,
Singapore, 17th November 1937.

Sir,

With reference to building plans submitted to the Municipal Architect on 19th ultimo, for proposed alterations to premises Nos. 157/169 (odd) Anson Road, I am directed by the Commissioners to require you to inform them whether or not the plans have been approved by the Singapore Improvement Trust under Section 59 of the Singapore Improvement Ordinance.

I have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servant.

sd. C.H. Goldie
Municipal Secretary.

Frank W. Brewer, Esq., F.R.I.B.A.
51, The Arcade,
Singapore.

===== Page 141 =====
November 20th, 1987.

To
The Municipal Secretary
Singapore.

Dear Sir,

MESSRS ALKAFF & CO
NOS. 157-169 ANSON ROAD
PROPOSED ALTERATIONS

Referring to your letter of the 17th instant, duplicate copies of the 1/8" scale plans and triplicate copies of the site plan of the above were, in accordance with Section 145(B) of the Municipal Ordinance, submitted to the Building Surveyor on the 18th (not 19th) ultimo. In ordinary practice, the Building Surveyor sends one copy of the site plan (this is the reason for submitting three copies of the same) to the Singapore Improvement Trust for their approval.

The plans were not submitted direct to the Singapore Improvement Trust because Section 59 of the Singapore Improvement Ordinance did not appear to apply to the present case.

If you say it does, I should be obliged if you would inform me in what respect it applies.

Yours faithfully,

sd. F.W.B.

F.R.I.B.A.

===== Page 142 =====
No. 3047.- The Municipal Ordinance (Chapter 133) and the Singapore Improvement Ordinance (Chapter 134).

Whereas the Chairman of the Singapore Improvement Trust has requested the Governor in Council under the provisions of Section 148 of the Municipal Ordinance and Section 2(2) of the Singapore Improvement Ordinance to order that a back-lane of a width not exceeding 20 feet be laid out in the block bounded by Anson Road, Selangor Street, Rembau Street and Trafalgar Street, Singapore, and that certain land being Lot 159¹, Town Subdivision XXIII, be acquired for that purpose as shown coloured pink in the certified plan deposited at the Colonial Secretary's Office, Singapore:

It is hereby notified that the Governor in Council has appointed Mr. L. H. Gorsuch, M.C.S., to enquire into and report upon the said application.

M. V. Del Tufo

Clerk of Councils.

Council Chamber,
Singapore, 16th October, 1937. (7106/37).

===== Page 143 =====
Gentlemen,

I have the honour to inform you that an application to the Governor in Council under Section 148 of the Municipal Ordinance (Chapter 133) and Section 2(2) of the Singapore Improvement Ordinance (Chapter 134) affecting Lots 159², 159³ & 159⁴ of Town Subdivision XXIII (Nos. 2 & 3 Trafalgar St., Nos. 5 & 7 Selangor St. & Nos. 157/169 Anson Rd) has been referred to me for report and that I am prepared to hear objections to the making of an order under the sections afore-said at any time on or before the 11th December 1937.

A plan showing the proposals of the Singapore Improvement Trust is open to inspection at the Land Office during office hours.

I have the honour to be,

Gentlemen,

Your obedient servant,

Sd/- L. H. Gorsuch

Mr. Syed Abdulrahman bin Shaik Alkaff & Ors,
(Trustees of Syed Shaik bin Abdulrahman Alkaff decd),
Nos. 70 & 70A, The Arcade.

===== Page 144 =====
Singapore, 8th December, 1937.

Sir,

L.O. 749/1934.
C.S.O. 7106/1937.

We have the honour on behalf of our clients Syed Abdulrahman bin Shaik Alkaff and others, the Trustees of the Settlement made by the late Syed Shaik bin Abdulrahman Alkaff, to acknowledge receipt of your letter of the 12th ultimo numbered as above, which was received by our clients on the 18th ultimo.

2. Our clients would have instructed us to write to you before about this matter, had it not been for the fact that on the 18th October last, they submitted to the Municipal Commissioners a plan for extending the houses Nos. 157 to 169 Anson Road at the back towards the property belonging to Fraser & Neave Ltd., and this alteration involved the demolition of Nos. 1, 2 and 3 Trafalgar Street and Nos. 3, 5 and 7 Selangor Street, and made provision for one-half of the width of a backlane.

3. Our clients had hoped that their proposals would have been assented to by the Municipal Commissioners, and that it would have been unnecessary for the application for a backlane referred to in your letter to them to be proceeded with.

4. Our clients understand that the Municipal Commissioners and Fraser & Neave Ltd. have been notified of the application referred to in your letter, but our clients submit that the Municipal Commissioners are not in fact now interested in the property, inasmuch as the Order of the Governor in Council, which vested in them part of the property concerned for the purposes of the making of a backlane, has been quashed by an Order of the Court of Appeal which has recently been registered against the property in question.

5. Our clients' representative has seen the plan showing the proposals of the Singapore Improvement Trust in connection

===== Page 145 =====
With the backlane, it appears to our clients that the backlane shown on the plan is exactly similar to that which the Singapore Improvement Trust desired to have made before the proceedings taken by our clients for the quashing of the Order of the Governor in Council were commenced.

6. Our clients' objections to the present proposals of the Singapore Improvement Trust are much the same as they were originally.

In the circumstances, our clients would like to appear before you with their architect and solicitors, so that if you are not already acquainted with their objections, you should have the opportunity of hearing them.

We shall be much obliged if you will give us particulars of the day and time upon which you will hear our clients' objections.

We have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servants,

Sd/- Sisson & Delay

L. H. Gorsuch, Esq.,
The Land Office.

===== Page 146 =====
LAND OFFICE,
Singapore, 13th December, 1937.

Gentlemen,

L. O. 749/34.

I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 8th December, 1937, on the subject dealt with in the correspondence noted above.

2. With regard to para. 4 of your letter, I have to inform you that a letter has now been served on your clients in respect of Lot No. 159 similar to that served on the 18th November, 1937, in respect of the other property of your clients affected by the proposals of the Singapore Improvement Trust. The date of expiry of the period for hearing objections is fixed in that letter at the 8th January, 1938.

3. I am causing enquiries to be made of the Municipal Commissioners regarding the information given in para. 2 of your letter. If it is necessary for me to enquire into and report upon the application of the Singapore Improvement Trust, I propose to fix a day for hearing objections as soon after the 8th January, 1938, as is convenient to all parties concerned.

I have the honour to be,

Gentlemen,

Your obedient servant,

Sd/- L. H. Gorsuch

Messrs. Sisson & Delay,
Singapore.

===== Page 147 =====
Sir,

Houses Nos. 157/169 (odd) Anson Road.

Alkaff & Co. and The Municipal Commissioners.

We have the honour on behalf of our clients, Messrs. Alkaff & Co., to address you with reference to the writer's interview with you this morning in connection with the correspondence which has passed between our clients' Architect, Mr. F. W. Brewer, and the Municipal Commissioners regarding plans submitted to the latter Corporation for alterations to the premises Nos. 157/169 (odd) Anson Road, which alterations involve the demolition of houses Nos. 1, 2 and 3 Trafalgar Street and Nos. 3, 5 and 7 Selangor Street.

2. We have the honour to enclose copies of such correspondence from which you will see that -

(a) The plans were first submitted by Mr. Brewer to the Municipal Building Surveyor on the 18th October.

(b) About one month later, namely, on the 17th November, the Municipal Commissioners by their Secretary requested Mr. Brewer to state whether or not the plans have been approved by the Singapore Improvement Trust under section 59 of the Singapore Improvement Ordinance.

(c) On the 20th November Mr. Brewer replied explaining why plans had been submitted to the Building Surveyor, and that they had not been submitted to the Improvement Trust, because section 59 of the Singapore Improvement Ordinance did not appear to apply, and in his letter Mr. Brewer asked if he might be informed in what respect it applied, if it did apply.

(d) Nearly one month later, namely, on the 17th December the Municipal Secretary replied stating that section 59 of the Singapore Improvement Ordinance applied in respect of the lay-out of a new backlane, and required

===== Page 148 =====
Mr. Brewer to supply the Commissioners with evidence that the proposed backlane was so situated as to conform with such line as was laid down therefor by the Singapore Improvement Trust.

3. We have the honour to refer you to section 144(1) of the Municipal Ordinance in accordance with which the plans referred to were submitted by our clients' Architect to the Commissioners and also to Sub-section (12) of the same section under which if the Commissioners do not within two calendar months after the submission of plans approve such plans or make written requisition with regard thereto the persons submitting the plans may apply to the Governor in Council and the powers vested in the Commissioners with regard to such plans vest in the Governor in Council.

4. It is submitted that the request by the Commissioners to be supplied with evidence that the proposed backlane conforms with such line as is laid down by the Singapore Improvement Trust is not a written requisition within the meaning of Sub-section (12) of Section 144 of the Municipal Ordinance, and for the following reasons:

(a) The written requisition referred to in Sub-section (12) of Section 144 of the Municipal Ordinance was apparently intended to mean the written directions specified in Sub-section (2) of the Section.

(b) Section 59 of the Singapore Improvement Ordinance can only apply to the present case if our clients intend to make or lay out a new backlane, and this is not their intention.

(c) Section 145 of the Municipal Ordinance would not appear to apply because the plan submitted is not the plan of a "domestic building", but even if it were, our clients are complying with Section 145 (1) (b) which they submit is the only part of the Section that applies.

(d) From the wording of the last paragraph of the Commissioners' letter of the 17th instant to our clients' Architect [POSSIBLY MISSING]

===== Page 149 =====
It would appear that the Commissioners assume that Section 145 (3) of the Municipal Ordinance applies, but this is not the case, as no line has yet been laid down by the Singapore Improvement Trust for a backlane in respect of the particular properties.

5. Our clients do not wish to trouble the Governor in Council unnecessarily, but they feel that unnecessary delay has occurred in dealing with their plans, and that their Architect's request for information as to why Section 59 of the Singapore Improvement Ordinance applied has not received any real reply. It may be that the reasons for this are that on the 11th December our clients received notice of an application to the Governor in Council by the Singapore Improvement Trust for the laying out of backlanes to serve the houses in question and the Commissioners simply wished to postpone dealing with our clients' plans until the enquiry in connection with the proposed backlanes could be held.

6. Our clients would be very much obliged if you can see your way to inform them whether you think that they would be justified in asking the Governor in Council to deal with their plans under Section 144(12) of the Municipal Ordinance, but they recognise that you may feel a difficulty in complying with this request, and they will understand the position if you find yourself unable to do so.

We have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servants,

Sd/- Sisson & Delay

The Honourable,
The Attorney General.

===== Page 150 =====
ATTORNEY-GENERAL'S CHAMBERS,
Singapore, 31st December, 1937.

Gentlemen,

Re Houses Nos. 157/169 Anson Road.

I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated 29th December 1937 and to inform you that I regret that as the points to which you refer are precisely those upon which I should have to advise the Governor in Council if and when any application is made under section 144 (12) it would be embarrassing to commit myself at this stage, particularly without hearing any argument which may be adduced by the Municipal Commissioners.

I have the honour to be,

Gentlemen,

Your obedient servant,

Sd/- C. G. Howell
Attorney-General, S. S.

Messrs. Sisson & Delay,
Advocates and Solicitors,
Union Building,
Singapore.

===== Page 151 =====
Gentlemen,

Anson Road Back Lane Scheme.

With reference to your letter of the 25th March, 1938, I have the honour to inform you that I have received the reply of the Singapore Improvement Trust in respect of the houses referred to in paragraphs 3(xiv) and 4 of that letter.

2. I have only a copy of the reply, which is accompanied by plans of the various properties in question. If you will inform me when it would be convenient for you to receive these documents for perusal with your clients I will forward them to you; and I suggest that, if you should require further information on any points arising therefrom, you should let me know in order that the Singapore Improvement Trust may have previous notice before the enquiry is resumed.

3. The enquiry stands adjourned until the 30th May, 1938, at 2.15 p.m.

I have the honour to be,

Gentlemen,

Your obedient servant,

Sd/- L. H. Gorsuch

Messrs. Sisson & Delay,
Union Building,
Singapore.

===== Page 152 =====
Gentlemen,

Anson Road Back Lane Scheme.

With reference to my letter of the 20th May, 1938, and to my conversation by telephone with Mr. Seth, I have the honour to forward herewith a copy of the reply of the Singapore Improvement Trust dated the 20th April, 1938, in respect of the houses referred to in paragraphs 3(xiv) and 4 of your letter of the 25th March, 1938, together with the originals of the plans which accompanied the Improvement Trust letter.

2. I should be glad if the plans may be returned to me not later than the morning of the 28th May.

I am, Gentlemen,

Your obedient servant,

Sd/- L. H. Gorsuch

Messrs. Sisson & Delay,
Union Building,
Singapore.

===== Page 153 =====
Gentlemen,

Anson Road Back Lane Enquiry.

I understand that a copy of Messrs. Braddell Bros' letter to me dated the 6th July has been forwarded to you by them.

2. I shall be glad to know as early as possible whether you have any further representations to make arising out of that letter, as I propose now to prepare my report on the enquiry.

I have the honour to be,

Gentlemen,

Your obedient servant,

Sd/- L. H. Gorsuch

Messrs. Sisson & Delay,
Union Building,
Singapore.

===== Page 154 =====
No. 2712 - The Municipal Ordinance (Chapter 133) and the Singapore Improvement Ordinance (Chapter 134).

Whereas the Chairman of the Singapore Improvement Trust has requested the Governor in Council under the provisions of Section 148 of the Municipal Ordinance and Section 2(2) of the Singapore Improvement Ordinance to order that a back-lane of a width not exceeding 20 feet be laid out in the block bounded by Anson Road, Selangor Street, Rembau Street, and Trafalgar Street, Singapore, and that certain land being Lot 159¹ Town Subdivision XXIII be acquired for that purpose as shown coloured pink in the certified plan deposited at the Colonial Secretary's Office, Singapore:

And whereas the Governor in Council has received a report on the proposal from an officer appointed to enquire and report, to wit, Mr. L. H. Gorsuch, M.C.S.:

And whereas the Governor in Council has duly considered this application:

Now, therefore, it is hereby ordered by the Governor in Council that a back-lane of a width not exceeding 20 feet be laid out in the block bounded by Anson Road, Selangor Street, Rembau Street, and Trafalgar Street, Singapore, in accordance with the plan certified by the Chairman of Singapore Improvement Trust, and deposited in the office of the Colonial Secretary, and that the land affected by the aforesaid proposal, namely the land shown coloured pink in the said plan, be acquired by the Singapore Improvement Trust for the purpose of providing the aforesaid back-lane.

M. V. Del Tufo
Clerk of Councils.
Council Chamber,
Singapore, 7th September, 1938. (No. 7106/37).

===== Page 155 =====
PETITION OF ALKAFF & CO.

Re: THE ANSON ROAD BACKLANE SCHEME.

LIST OF PLANS ACCOMPANYING PETITION

A.C.

Sisson & Delay,
Singapore.

===== Page 156 =====
SITE PLAN
SCALE ONE CHAIN TO AN INCH.

FRANK W. BREWER F.R.I.B.A.
ARCHITECT, SINGAPORE. OCT. 1937.

===== Page 157 =====
MESSRS. ALKAFF & CO.
PROPOSED ALTERATIONS.
M.C. No. 157, 159, 161, 163, 165, 167, & 169 ANSON ROAD.
SCALE 8 FEET TO AN INCH.

OWNERS' SIGNATURE:
ADDRESS: No. 70 THE ARCADE.

FRANK W. BREWER, F.R.I.B.A.
ARCHITECT, SINGAPORE, OCT. 37.

===== Page 158 =====
MESSRS ALKAFF & CO.
PROPOSED ALTERATIONS.
M.C. No. 157, 159, 161, 163, 165, 167 & 169 ANSON ROAD.
SCALE 8 FEET TO AN INCH.

OWNER'S SIGNATURE.
ADDRESS No. 70 THE ARCADE.

BACK LANE

TRAFALCAR STREET

M.C. No. 157.
M.C. No. 159.
M.C. No. 161.
M.C. No. 163.
M.C. No. 165.
M.C. No. 167.
M.C. No. 169.

FIVE FOOT WAY

ANSON ROAD

GROUND FLOOR PLAN

FRANK W. BREWEL. F.R.I.B.A.
ARCHITECT. SINGAPORE. OCT. 37

===== Page 159 =====
MARKET STREET

MALACCA

RAFFLES PLACE

T.S. No. 1
SCALE OF 33 FEET TO AN INCH
S.D. 1 BLOCK 4

Prepared by: Charles L. Langdon Williams
Checked by: May 9/39

===== Page 160 =====
D.4. BLOCK I.

"C"

158 AYER STREET
TELOK LIM STREET
CHEANG HONG STREET
CECIL
BACK LANE 20'03" WIDE
GUTHRIE LANE
EXISTING BACK LANE
MARKET STREET
BACK LANE EXISTING
T.S. NO.1

SCALE OF 33 FEET TO AN INCH

===== Page 161 =====
STREET
SEAH BEACH ROAD

T.S. No. XI
SCALE OF 33 FEET TO AN INCH
S.D.XI B.IX

St. I. Langdon Williams
K.R.I.B.A., K.S.I., M.T.P.I., M.I. Struct. E.
Manager
Singapore Improvement Trust.

===== Page 162 =====
SCALE OF ONE CHAIN TO AN INCH

===== Page 163 =====
S.D.I BLOCK 4

Prepared by
Checked by

T.S. No. 1
SCALE OF 33 FEET TO AN INCH

S.D. James M. Fraser
A.R.I.B.A., A.M.T.P.I., A.M.I. Street E.
Acting Manager,
SINGAPORE IMPROVEMENT TRUST.

===== Page 164 =====
WATERLOO STREET

QUEEN STREET

S.D.II. B.3

SCALE OF 33 FEET TO AN INCH

===== Page 165 =====
T.S. No. VIII
SCALE OF 33 FEET TO AN INCH

===== Page 166 =====
BLOCK NO. 3

QUEEN STREET

MIDDLE ROAD

VICTORIA STREET

SDXB2

SDXB7

BRAS BASAH ROAD

===== Page 167 =====
Fish Her Street
Back Lane Wide
Angus Street
Boat Quay
T.S.N. Twill
Scale of 33 Feet to an Inch
Sel L. Langdon Williams
Kriba, S.I. M.T.R.I. M.I. Struct. E
Manager
Singapore, Commercial Trust.

===== Page 168 =====
MESSRS. ALKAFF & CO.
PROPOSED ALTERATIONS.
M.C.N. No. 157, 159, 161, 163, 165, 167, & 169 ANSON ROAD.
SCALE 8 FEET TO AN INCH.

OWNERS' SIGNATURE:
ADDRESS NO. 70 THE ARCADE.

FIRST FLOOR PLAN.

FRANK W. BREWER, F.R.I.B.A.
ARCHITECT. SINGAPORE, OCT. 31.

===== Page 169 =====
PETITION OF ALKAFF & CO.

Re THE ANSON ROAD BACKLANE SCHEME.

LIST OF PLANS ACCOMPANYING PETITION.

Mr. Brewer's Plans showing the alterations to be made on the Anson Road houses and the demolition of the Trafalgar Street and Selangor Street houses (see Paragraph 20 of the Petition).

Plans referred to in Paragraph 32 of the Petition, viz:-

Plan "C" - Telok Ayer & Cecil Streets.

"D" - Raffles Place & Market Street.

"E" - Mohamed Sultan Road.

"F" - Boat Quay & Fisher Street.

"G" - 180/183, Queen Street.

"H" - 76, Boat Quay.

"I" - Beach Road & Seah Street.

"J" - Cecil & Malacca Streets.

"K" - Queen & Waterloo Streets.

===== Page 170 =====
The property which is the subject of this enquiry is shown in the attached plan, and consists of a block of 13 shop and dwelling houses: Nos. 157, 159, 161, 163, 165, 167, 169 Anson Road; Nos. 1, 2, and 3 Trafalgar Street; and Nos. 3, 5, and 7 Selangor Street. These houses form one solid block of buildings, and Nos. 3 Trafalgar Street and 7 Selangor Street are contiguous with Messrs. Fraser & Neave's factory. The 13 houses are all in one ownership, forming part of the charitable Settlements of Syed Shaik bin Abdulrahman Alkaff, of which Syed Abdulrahman bin Shaik Alkaff and his four brothers Syed Abubakar, Syed Omar, Syed Abdulgader, and Syed Hassan are trustees. Messrs. Alkaff & Co. act as managers for the trustees.

2. The hearing has been a protracted one, extending over four separate days on which some eight hours have been spent in lengthy and at times acrimonious argument. The objectors were represented by Shaik Yahya Afifi, manager of Alkaff & Co., with Mr. H.D. Mundell for Messrs. Sisson & Delay as Solicitors and Mr. F. Brewer as architect, and the Singapore Improvement Trust by Mr. L. Langdon Williams, Manager, with Mr. J. Laycock for Messrs. Braddell Bros. as Solicitors to the Trust.

3. The line of back-lane proposed by the Trust to which the owners object is shown in red on the plan. It involves the demolition of the houses on Nos. 1 Trafalgar Street and 3 Selangor Street, and the construction of a back-lane 15 feet wide along the boundary of Nos. 2 Trafalgar Street and 5 Selangor Street and a back-lane of 7 feet 6 inches at right angles to serve the four remaining houses in those two streets.

4. It is important at this stage to note the following measurements. The depth of the existing buildings on the Anson Road frontage varies from 90 feet 6 inches to 99 feet 6 inches. If back-lanes as proposed by the Trust are ordered the depth of the sites fronting Anson Road will be from 95 feet to 107 feet. The depths of the sites fronting Trafalgar and Selangor Streets will vary from 66 feet to 68 feet.

5. The objectors base their opposition to the Trust's proposals on the fact that the principal value of the block is its frontage to Anson Road. If the back-lanes are put in as proposed, not only will the potential depth of buildings fronting Anson Road be curtailed, but the sites fronting Trafalgar and Selangor Streets will not be of economical depth, as 66 to 68 feet is held not to be an economical depth for shophouses. The objectors wish a back-lane to be sited parallel to the boundary of Messrs. Fraser & Neave's property and running through Nos. 3 Trafalgar Street and 7 Selangor Street. This would enable them to demolish all six buildings facing those two streets and extend to the maximum possible depth fronting Anson Road, and they have in fact put in plans to alter the existing Anson Road houses accordingly.

6. Under the Municipal Bye-laws governing the erection of this type of property, one-third of the site must be kept as open space, or one-fourth where the site is a corner one. The objectors point out that even if the back-lane were sited as they ask, this bye-law would prevent them from extending the present depth of building on the Anson Road frontage even if new buildings were erected in place of the present ones, since the addition to depth provided by demolition of the houses fronting the two side streets would be required as open space to make up the prescribed proportion.

===== Page 171 =====
7. The reply of the Improvement Trust to these contentions is that to site the back-lane as proposed by the objectors would give a site depth from Anson Road of 135 feet. The Trust's view, based on experience, is that 85 feet is the optimum depth for this type of property; if a greater depth is permitted neither the owners nor the law can prevent insanitary cubicles from being put in. It is admitted that a depth of 85 feet is not prescribed by law, but it is the depth to which the Trust endeavours to work in the preparation of all schemes. It is admitted that if back-lanes are put in as proposed by the Trust the owners will incur no legal obligation to provide the one-third or one-quarter open space on the Anson Road sites as long as the present buildings exist, but if they are demolished and replaced by new buildings of the same type the bye-law will operate and the object of the 85 feet limit will be attained. The Trust is willing, in view of the shape of the block and present layout, to agree to a depth of from 95 to 107 feet in this case (see paragraph 4 above), but it strongly opposes the siting of the back-lane in such a way as to give the owners the right to rebuild on a depth of 135 feet and thus to maintain permanently the present extent of built-over area on the Anson Road frontage.

8. During the enquiry efforts were made by the objectors to introduce matter in connection not only with the previous enquiry before Mr. Ebden and the certiorari proceedings, but also with other back-lane proceedings in which the objectors and the Trust had come into conflict, and it was necessary to remind the objectors that I was holding an enquiry into a specific back-lane proposal and not a general enquiry into the proceedings of the Trust. Certain points have, however, emerged which are of direct relevance to the finding in this enquiry:

(a) the objectors claimed that the 85 feet limit had, in many other cases, not been insisted upon by the Trust, and made in this connection a definite accusation of partial treatment against the Trust. Six groups of property were specifically mentioned, and I examined the plans of these and heard Mr. Langdon Williams' reply. Later a further six groups were cited as evidence not of partiality but of the 85 feet limit not having been insisted upon, and these were also examined. The depths to the back-lanes varied in most of these cases between 100 and 150 feet. The reasons for the abnormal depth were various. In some cases the lane had been made before the Trust came into existence or had been set aside behind some lots from time to time in the past and merely joined into a continuous line by the back-lane. In other cases the nature of the property was so heterogeneous, consisting of compound houses, schools and business premises mixed with shop and dwelling houses, as in the Bras Basah Road - Waterloo Street area, that adherence to an 85 feet depth was impracticable and largely unnecessary (in one case the line would have gone through a church). The contention of the Trust was that in no case of a homogeneous block of shop and dwelling houses had a back-lane been sited by the Trust in such a way as to permit the owner to extend the depth of his property so as to infringe the 85 feet limit to the extent now asked for by the objectors; and this contention was not upset by any evidence produced at the enquiry. It should be placed on record also that in my opinion the objectors failed to substantiate in any way the accusation of partial treatment.

===== Page 172 =====
(b) The question of the possible use of the whole block at some future time for the erection of a large office building or business premises was mentioned several times during the enquiry. In reply to a question by me whether this would be hindered or prevented if the back-lanes are now laid out as the Trust requires them, Mr. Laycock on behalf of the Trust gave an undertaking in the following words:

"In the event of the Singapore Improvement Trust's proposals being approved and the back-lanes constructed accordingly, if at any future time the owners wish to put up a large office building (subsequently amended to 'business premises') on the whole block then the Trust will be willing to take all necessary steps to amend the lay-out so as to provide for the back-lane being moved to a position alongside Messrs. Fraser & Neave's premises to a width of 15 feet therefrom, and they will be willing to take such necessary steps by way of application to the Governor-in-Council and by making representations to the Municipal Commissioners as they are able to do to effectuate this."

Mr. Laycock cited section 150(6) of the Municipal Ordinance as applying to exchange of back-lane sites. After consideration of this, the objectors were unable to withdraw their objection, though they said that had they known in 1934, at the time of the previous enquiry, that the Trust were willing to meet them in the manner now suggested, they would certainly not have contested the Trust's proposals. But they do not now wish to retain any of the Trafalgar Street or Selangor Street houses, but wish to pull them down and use the sites as open areas for the Anson Road houses (less the area required for a back-lane along Messrs. Fraser & Neave's premises).

(c) It was stated by Mr. Laycock at the final hearing that the undertaking referred to in (b) above introduced no new factor, and that the Chairman of the Improvement Trust had agreed, on reference being made to him, that the undertaking represented what had always been the view and intention of the Trust. In reply, the objectors strenuously denied that the point had ever been mentioned previously or that they had ever been given reason to believe that the Trust would meet them to this extent. Finally, Mr. Laycock added that he was authorised by the Chairman to say that the Chairman thought there would be no difficulty in the Trust approving a tenement block instead of business premises on the whole site provided that the Trust approved the building plan (Mr. Langdon Williams explained that the Trust approves a building plan as regards light and ventilation).

9. The decision in this matter appears to me to turn upon whether in this particular case the Trust is to be supported in its efforts to work to the 85 feet standard. I know very little of Municipal politics, but it seems obvious that in the work of endeavouring to drive back-lanes through the congested parts of Singapore the Trust is likely to be met at every turn with recriminations and accusations of partiality unless it does work to some declared standard, and I am satisfied from examination of the various plans produced before me that the 85 feet standard is in common and constant use, and has not been adduced by the Trust merely to obstruct the legitimate enterprise of these particular owners as the objectors imply. With regard to the particular case under enquiry there are three points which influence me:

(a) it is agreed by both parties that the Anson Road houses are good for probably 30-40 years more, and the trend of the enquiry strongly indicated that the objectors have at present no other intention than to develop the existing Anson Road houses on the full depth to Fraser & Neave's boundary;

===== Page 173 =====
(b) The siting of the back-lanes as proposed by the Trust will not prevent the owners from using the whole site for business premises or a tenement block at some future date in view of the undertaking given by the Trust.

(c) With regard to the suggestion that the proposed depth of 66-68 feet for the houses on the two side streets is uneconomic, it will be seen from the plan that in the neighboring block bounded by Selangor Street, Anson Road, and Patani Street a similar back-lane layout is in existence. (The same applies to the next block on the other side of Patani Street). There did not appear when I visited to be any lack of demand for the houses facing Selangor Street.

10. My conclusion is that the objectors have not established any valid objection to the layout proposed by the Trust, and that subject to the undertaking of the Trust as in paragraph 8(b) above being conveyed to the objectors, an Order should be made as suggested by the Trust.

Sd./- L. H. Gorsuch,

(L. H. Gorsuch, M.C.S.).

9 August, 1938.

===== Page 174 =====
50007
184

===== Page 175 =====
Petitions. Messrs Alkaff and Company. 1940. MS Records of the British Colonial Office CO 273/660/8. The National Archives (Kew, United Kingdom). State Papers Online Colonial, link.gale.com/apps/doc/NKCXEB905481630/SPOC?u=nuslib&sid=bookmark-SPOC&xid=4980f54a. Accessed 28 Feb. 2026.

Gale Document Number: GALE|NKCXEB905481630

