===== Page 1 =====
1940
STRAITS MALAY STATES

PETITION
CRYLONESE COMMUNITY IN MALAYA

C0273/660/7

Previous
Subsequent

R. 83 19/6
M. Bicke 14/6
M. Monson 7/6
M. Bicke 17/6
Sir A. Brenus 17/6
Mr. Hall 19/6
L. Scott 19
M. Bicke 20/6
R. 295(D) 27/6
A3. 28/6
P.D. 29/41
Room 83. PUT BY

FILE A.

===== Page 2 =====
50007/183

===== Page 3 =====
A Ceylonese (Mr. Vethavanam) has served in the past as a member of the Selangor State Council, and a Ceylonese is even now serving on the Perak State Council. These appointments have not arisen out of any right of the Ceylonese to representation as Ceylonese, but appear to have resulted from the application of the doctrine enunciated by Sir Hugh Clifford in the speech quoted in paragraph 2 of this despatch that, as the Ceylonese in Malaya are preponderatingly Hindus and are of Indian origin, they should be regarded as eligible to represent the Hindu community on the Councils.

With the growth of political consciousness, the Indians will never again be content to be represented on any of the Councils by Ceylonese, and it follows that the Ceylonese have no hope of obtaining any further representation.

Although, as the High Commissioner says, the Ceylonese represent on average much higher standards of living and culture than the Indians, their case is weakened by the fact that in numbers they are less than 4 per cent of the Indians in the F.M.S.

Neither the petition nor the High Commissioner's despatch makes any specific reference to representation on any Council or public body in the Straits. This is presumably because very few of the Ceylonese in Malaya reside in the Colony.

- Acknowledge and ask that the petitioners may be informed that their petition has been received and has been given careful consideration; that, while the Secretary of State fully appreciates the services which Ceylonese have given to Malaya in the past, he fears that they have not yet reached the stage of advancement either in numbers or participation in the economic development of the country which would justify the appointment of a Ceylonese in addition to an Indian member of either the Federal or State Councils, but that he knows of no reason why they should not continue to be represented on public bodies such as Sanitary Boards.

I would omit the threatened passage.

The Ceylonese may not be playing a big part in the present economic development of the country, but they seem to have done very useful space work in the past and in any case.

===== Page 4 =====
The Indians in Malaya have for long made it a grievance that the appointment of a Ceylonese Tamil as an Unofficial Member of the Legislature should be regarded as a suitable form of representation of Indian interests. For instance, the Indian community complained about it to Sir S. Wilson when he visited Malaya in 1932.

It is clear that the relatively small numbers of Ceylonese (who are mostly employed in subordinate clerical appointments in the Government Service and on the Railways) do not entitle them to separate representation either in the Legislative or Federal Councils, and moreover, at the same time, the modern policy in the F.M.S. of giving preference to Malaya-born and -educated candidates is apprehended in Jaffna itself as likely to reduce very considerably the opportunities for Jaffna Tamils to make a career in Malaya. Nevertheless, I doubt if there is a clearly defined "system of representation" in Malaya in respect of the nomination of Unofficial Members, and for that reason I should suggest it is not advisable to use the expression in replying to this petition.

To reply that the petition has been received and sympathetically considered by the S. of S. who appreciates the part played by Ceylonese in Malaya and particularly in the public services of the Peninsular, but at the same time he regrets that he cannot feel that either from a point of view of numbers or the extent of their participation in the economic development of the country, the appointment of a Ceylon representative in addition to an Indian member to the Legislature would be justified. But it is expected that other public bodies the Ceylonese community could continue to be represented by one of their number. (I suggest that this despatch and reply should be printed in the F.M.S. Constitutional series.)

17.6.40.

===== Page 5 =====
C. O.

Mr. Ballard 20/6
Mr. Bierle 24/6
Mr. Wilson 25/6
Sir A. Burns.
Mr. G. L. M. Clauson.
Mr. C. J. Jeffries.
Mr. A. J. Dawe.
Sir J. Shuckburgh.
Permt. U.S. of S.
Parly. U.S. of S.
Secretary of State.

27 June 1940

I have etc. to

DRAFT.
Malay States
Conf.
H.C.

Conf. deep. of the 10th June forwarding a petition on behalf of the Customer community in Malaya on the subject of representation on the Council or other Public Bodies of the Malayan

FURTHER ACTION.

Conv. 14 this in the Commission series.

===== Page 6 =====
Gorio.

Should or seem it if.

2. I have to request you to cancel the petition, so be kind. I have read it sympathetically.

I have given their petition my sympathetic consideration and appreciate the part played by Ceylon in Malaya, particularly in the public services of the Peninsula. I regret, however, that I cannot feel that either from the point of view of numbers or the extent of their participation in the economy...

===== Page 7 =====
C. O.

Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Sir A. Burns.
Mr. G. L. M. Clauson.
Mr. C. J. Jeffries.
Mr. A. J. Dawe.
Sir J. Shuckburgh.
Permt. U.S. of S.
Parly. U.S. of S.
Secretary of State.

DRAFT.

Economic development of the country, the effect of a Ceylon reserve in addition to an Indian member to the legislative body, be justified, that on other public bodies, the Ceylon community continue to be represented by one of their members.

I have

(Signed) LLOYD

===== Page 8 =====
FEDERATED MALAY STATES.
THE HIGH COMMISSIONER
TO
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
(Received 10th June, 1940.)
[Answered by No. .]

(Confidential.)

MY LORD,
Government House, Singapore, 1st June, 1940.

I have the honour to forward a petition addressed to Your Lordship on behalf of the Ceylonese community in Malaya on the subject of representation on the Councils and other Public Bodies of the Malayan Governments.

2. The theory of Indian representation on the Federal Council is to be found in the words used by Sir Hugh Clifford when welcoming on the 27th of February, 1928, Mr. Veerasamy as the first representative of the Indian community to be appointed to the Federal Council. They were:

"We have on this Council various representatives of different communities, communities which are mainly or entirely Muhammadan, communities which are mainly Christian and so on, and, as regards the Indians in Malaya, you may say that the preponderating majority of them are Hindus though there are, of course, many Christians and some Muhammadans no doubt as members of their community... it is recognised by Government that the 12,300 Ceylonese are also preponderatingly Hindus and are of Indian origin, and I wish to state that Government reserves to itself the right, at any future time when a vacancy occurs... to select any member of the Hindu community, whether born in the Federated Malay States or not, or Indian or Ceylonese, to represent the community the majority of whom subscribe to the Hindu religion; and though the community which is represented now by Mr. Veerasamy on this Council is called the Indian community, we regard it as including the Ceylonese and, indeed, regard him as being specially the representative of the Hindu interests upon this Council."

3. Subsequent developments have detracted a good deal from whatever validity the emphasis upon the qualification of religion had at the time. The rapid and powerful growth of Indian nationalism has imparted to the question of qualification an overwhelmingly political significance and there is no doubt that the views expressed by the Indians of Selangor when at a public meeting held in Kuala Lumpur on the 11th of June 1935 they protested against the action of the Government of Selangor in interpreting the word "Indian" to include persons of Tamil race whose fathers or more remote ancestors were born in Ceylon and appointing a Ceylonese, Mr. Vethavanam, to take the place of Mr. Veerasamy on the Selangor State Council are those held to-day by politically-minded Indians in Malaya. It is noteworthy that this discontent nursed by the Selangor Indians was allayed by the appointment in place of Mr. Vethavanam of Mr. Benjamin, an Indian who is a Christian.

4. Although there is still a Ceylonese on the Perak State Council (there is an Indian member of the Negri Sembilan State Council as well as of the Selangor Council, Indians being unrepresented on the Pahang State Council) he must be regarded as the last of his kind and it must be accepted that in future the Indians in Malaya will not be content with representation by Ceylonese. There is evidence, too, that in other political matters the Indians wish to disassociate themselves from the Ceylonese and the fear implicit in the petition that the Ceylonese will cease to have representatives on the Councils, Federal or State, is well founded. There is, however, no reason to suppose that they will not continue to be represented on public bodies such as Sanitary Boards.

5. At the last Census the Indians in the Federated Malay States numbered 379,996 and the Ceylonese 13,648, and any subsequent variation of those figures is not likely to have been in favour of the latter. While it is true that the Ceylonese represent in the average much higher standards of living and culture than the Indians, these figures make it clear that they are not a community of sufficient size to be entitled to separate representation on the Federal or State Councils, and indeed I am advised that Their Highnesses the Rulers would be strongly opposed to any increase in Indian/Ceylonese representation on the latter; and much as I regret the disability now thrust upon them, I am not prepared to agree that they should be accorded the special treatment which is the essence of their request. And as regards the answer to their petition, I think it must be that, while Your Lordship and the Government of the Federated Malay States fully appreciate the past

===== Page 9 =====
Services of the Ceylonese to Malaya, under the present system of representation, they have not yet reached the stage of advancement either in numbers or participation in the economic development of the country which would justify appointment of a Ceylonese in addition to an Indian member on either the Federal or State Councils.

I have, &c.,
S. W. JONES,
High Commissioner.

Enclosure in No.

To The Right Honourable Mr. Malcolm MacDonald, M.P.,
His Majesty's Secretary of State for the Colonies,
Downing Street, London.

Through His Excellency the High Commissioner for the Malay States,
Singapore. P.O. Box No. 11, Kuala Lumpur,

SIR, Federated Malay States, 10th April, 1940.

On behalf of the Ceylonese Community of Malaya, we are directed respectfully to submit for the most sympathetic consideration of the Government the claims of the Ceylonese Community of Malaya for their representation in the Councils and other Public Bodies of the Malayan Governments.

2. When the British Government accepted, in the nineteenth century, the invitation to grant protection to the Malay States, the premier Crown Colony of Ceylon was appealed to by the Malayan authorities to assist the new Protected States towards their organization and development by encouraging the migration to Malaya of educated men to man the various branches of the Government service and of skilled workmen to serve as artisans in the construction of Government buildings, offices, hospitals, rest houses, public roads, bridges, railway lines, etc.

3. British Officers who were in the service of the Government of Ceylon were seconded for service in the Malay States and they persuaded an ever-increasing number of educated Ceylonese to immigrate so continuously as to almost fill the various sections of the Junior Civil and Technical Services under the Governments of the Malay States—Public Works, Railways, Medical, Posts and Telegraphs, Clerical, Surveys, etc., as it was found that only the enterprising Ceylonese ventured to accept positions in any distant part of the malarial and disease-stricken jungle land that British Malaya then was.

4. In grateful acknowledgment and appreciation of the great services rendered by the Ceylonese towards the development of Malaya, responsible British Administrators have borne testimony from time to time, one of whom, Sir George Maxwell, K.B.E., C.M.G., late Chief Secretary to the Government of the Federated Malay States, who was associated with the Malayan Governments from 1891 to 1926 and was personally acquainted with the history of the development of Malaya, writes as follows:

“On more than one occasion, in speeches which have not been reported, I have referred to the great debt which Malaya owes to the Jaffnese. People come and go in Malaya, and the present generation cannot realize the circumstances in which the last generation lived and worked. For the first twenty or twenty-five years, after the introduction of British protection into the Malay States, there were few really educated Chinese, and practically no locally educated Malays, who were competent to fill in the Government Service the appointments without which the Government could not be administered. The Government, in fact, was dependent upon the Jaffnese. Another point, on which I have laid emphasis, is that in the early days a new arrival from Jaffna would, with true courage, proceed, perhaps immediately after his arrival in a strange country, to take up work, far away in the jungle, in connection with some road, or railway, construction work which the men born and bred in the country would refuse to accept. Throughout the Malay States, there are lonely graves of these men of the early days, and of men too of our own times.”

“Jaffnese” are Ceylonese from the Northern Province of Ceylon.

===== Page 10 =====
His Excellency Sir Hugh Clifford, G.C.M.G., G.B.E., said as follows, during his period of office as the High Commissioner for the Malay States, at a Public Function held on the 6th January, 1928, at Kuala Lipis, the Capital of the States of Pahang:

"I remember the very early days when the Tamils of Jaffna came down to this country rather apprehensively — to a country that was known to the pioneers only of the Malay States — and the part they played as road overseers, survey officers and clerks in Government Offices at a time when it was exceedingly difficult to persuade the Straits men to leave the Colony and to seek their fortunes in this out-of-the-way part of the world. This State owed much to the Jaffna Tamil."

5. Since the time of British Protection, a large number of Ceylonese have made Malaya their home, so that there is at present a strong community of Ceylonese in almost all the States and Settlements. They occupy not only many responsible places in the Government Service, but also have vested interests in Agriculture, Planting, Mining and Commerce, besides those who practise the learned professions of Law, Medicine, Architecture, etc.

6. The valuable contribution which the Ceylonese have made towards the growth and development of the Malay States and the important place which they do at present occupy in the economy of these States were borne in mind and given practical expression to by the then Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Straits Settlements and High Commissioner for the Malay States when His Excellency Sir Hugh Clifford, G.C.M.G., G.B.E., pronounced in 1928 from his place as the President of the Federal Council the decision of the Government to grant a seat in that Council for a representative of the Ceylonese and Indian Communities, whose first representative was the Honourable Mr. S. Veerasamy, who also served as a Member of the Selangor State Council.

When Mr. S. Veerasamy ceased to be a Member of the Council of State of Selangor, Mr. J. R. Vethavanam, a prominent Ceylonese was appointed, in 1935, to that Council to serve as the Representative of the Indians and Ceylonese in the State.

When the Government decided upon granting representation for the Ceylonese and Indians in the premier State of the Federation — Perak — Mr. S. Seenivasagam, another Ceylonese, was appointed Member of the Council of State of Perak.

Dr. N. Moothathamby, also a Ceylonese, was invited to represent the Indians and Ceylonese in the State Council of Johore.

7. The decision of the Governments of the Malay States to provide for the representation of the Indian and Ceylonese Communities through only one nominated Member of Council in each State was influenced largely by the fact that in Malaya the Indians and Ceylonese had lived most happily for over half-a-century, having their common social, religious and general needs served by common institutions, temples, schools, religious organizations, sports clubs, etc.

8. In recent years, however, as a result of divergent political thoughts between the Indians and Ceylonese in this Country, accentuated by the political differences between the Governments of Ceylon and India, the two Communities have been driven asunder. Suspicion and mistrust of each other are unfortunately gaining ground.

9. The circumstances outlined in paragraph 8 above are creating anxieties among thoughtful men of both Communities who feel that the jealousy and animosity which are being fostered by the changed conditions will cease to find excuse for further growth, if the Government were pleased to provide separate representation for the Ceylonese in the Councils of the Country.

10. The Ceylonese of Malaya do, therefore, fervently pray that the Government may generously be pleased to consider their just claims for direct representation in the Councils and other Public Bodies of the Government.

11. The Ceylonese feel that the time and present world conditions do not justify public expression of their feelings in platforms or through the press, and, therefore, present their case through this memorandum.

We beg to remain, Sir,
Your most obedient servants,
For and on behalf of the Ceylonese of Malaya,
Conference of Ceylon Associations of Malaya,
(M. Saravanamuthu of Penang),
President.
(R. V. Karlakandan of Kuala Lumpur),
General Secretary.

===== Page 11 =====
My Lord,

I have the honour to forward a petition addressed to Your Lordship on behalf of the Ceylonese community in Malaya on the subject of representation on the Councils and other Public Bodies of the Malayan Governments.

2. The theory of Indian representation on the Federal Council is to be found in the words used by Sir Hugh Clifford when welcoming on the 27th of February 1928 Mr. Veerasamy as the first representative of the Indian community to be appointed to the Federal Council. They were:

"...We have on this Council various representatives of different communities, communities which are mainly or entirely Muhammadan, communities which are mainly Christian and so on, and, as regards the Indians in Malaya, you may say that the preponderating majority of them are Hindus though there are, of course, many Christians and some Muhammadans no doubt as members of their community. ...it is recognised by Government that the 12,500 Ceylonese are also preponderatingly Hindus and are of Indian origin, and I wish to state that Government reserves to itself the right, at any future time when a vacancy occurs ... to select any member of the Hindu community, whether born in the Federated Malay States or not, or Indian or Ceylonese, to represent the community the majority of whom subscribe to the Hindu religion; and though the community which is represented now by Mr. Veerasamy on this Council is called the Indian community, we regard it as including the Ceylonese and, indeed, regard him as being specially the representative of the Hindu interests upon this Council."

3. Subsequent developments have detracted a good deal from whatever validity the emphasis upon the qualification of religion had at the time. The rapid and powerful growth of Indian nationalism has imparted to the question of qualification an overwhelmingly political significance and there is no doubt that the views expressed by the Indians of Selangor when at a public meeting held in Kuala Lumpur on the 11th of June 1935 they protested against the action of the Government of Selangor in interpreting the word "Indian" to include persons of Tamil race whose fathers or more remote ancestors were born in Ceylon and appointing a Ceylonese, Mr. Vethavanam, to take the place of Mr. Veerasamy on the Selangor State Council are those held today by politically-minded Indians in Malaya. It is noteworthy that this discontent nursed by the Selangor Indians was allayed by the appointment in place of Mr. Vethavanam of Mr. Benjamin, an Indian who is a Christian.

The Right Honourable
The Lord Lloyd of Dolobran, P.C., G.C.S.I.,
etc., etc., etc.,
COLONIAL OFFICE.

===== Page 12 =====
4. Although there is still a Ceylonese on the Perak State Council (there is an Indian member of the Negri Sembilan State Council as well as of the Selangor Council, Indians being unrepresented on the Pahang State Council), he must be regarded as the last of his kind and it must be accepted that in future the Indians in Malaya will not be content with representation by Ceylonese. There is evidence, too, that in other political matters the Indians wish to disassociate themselves from the Ceylonese, and the fear implicit in the petition that the Ceylonese will cease to have representatives on the Councils, Federal or State, is well founded. There is, however, no reason to suppose that they will not continue to be represented on public bodies such as Sanitary Boards.

5. At the last Census the Indians in the Federated Malay States numbered 379,996 and the Ceylonese 13,648, and any subsequent variation of those figures is not likely to have been in favour of the latter. While it is true that the Ceylonese represent on average much higher standards of living and culture than the Indians, these figures make it clear that they are not a community of sufficient size to be entitled to separate representation on the Federal or State Councils, and indeed I am advised that Their Highnesses the Rulers would be strongly opposed to any increase in Indian/Ceylonese representation on the latter; and much as I regret the disability now thrust upon them, I am not prepared to agree that they should be accorded the special treatment which is the essence of their request. And as regards the answer to their petition, I think it must be that, while Your Lordship and the Government of the Federated Malay States fully appreciate the past services of the Ceylonese to Malaya, under the present system of representation they have not yet reached the stage of advancement either in numbers or participation in the economic development of the country which would justify appointment of a Ceylonese in addition to an Indian member on either the Federal or State Councils.

I have the honour to be,

My Lord,

Your Lordship's most obedient, humble servant,

S. W. Jones
HIGH COMMISSIONER.

===== Page 13 =====
To.

The Right Hon'ble Mr. Malcolm MacDonald, M.P., His Majesty's Secretary of State for the Colonies, Downing Street, London.

Through His Excellency the High Commissioner for the Malay States, Singapore.

Sir,

On behalf of the Ceylonese Community of Malaya, we are directed respectfully to submit for the most sympathetic consideration of the Government the claims of the Ceylonese Community of Malaya for their representation in the Councils and other Public Bodies of the Malayan Governments.

2. When the British Government accepted, in the nineteenth century, the invitation to grant protection to the Malay States, the premier Crown Colony of Ceylon was appealed to by the Malayan authorities to assist the new Protected States towards their organization and development by encouraging the migration to Malaya of educated men to man the various branches of the Government service and of skilled workmen to serve as artisans in the construction of Government buildings, offices, hospitals, rest houses, public roads, bridges, railway lines, etc.

3. British Officers who were in the service of the Government of Ceylon were seconded for service in the Malay States and they persuaded an ever-increasing number of educated Ceylonese to immigrate so continuously as to almost fill the various sections of the Junior Civil and Technical Services under the Governments of the Malay States - Public Works, Railways, Medical, Posts and Telegraphs, Clerical, Surveys, etc., as it was found that only the enterprising Ceylonese ventured to

===== Page 14 =====
Accept positions in any distant part of the malarial and disease-stricken jungle land that British Malaya then was.

4. In grateful acknowledgment and appreciation of the great services rendered by the Ceylonese towards the development of Malaya, responsible British Administrators have borne testimony from time to time, one of whom, Sir George Maxwell, K.B.E., C.M.G., late Chief Secretary to the Government of the Federated Malay States, who was associated with the Malayan Governments from 1891 to 1926 and was personally acquainted with the history of the development of Malaya, writes as follows:

"On more than one occasion, in speeches which have not been reported, I have referred to the great debt which Malaya owes to the Jaffnese. People come and go in Malaya, and the present generation cannot realize the circumstances in which the last generation lived and worked. For the first twenty or twenty-five years, after the introduction of British protection into the Malay States, there were few really educated Chinese, and practically no locally educated Malays, who were competent to fill in the Government Service the appointments without which the Government could not be administered. The Government, in fact, was dependent upon the Jaffnese. Another point, on which I have laid emphasis, is that in the early days a new arrival from Jaffna would, with true courage, proceed, perhaps immediately after his arrival in a strange country, to take up work, far away in the jungle, in connection with some road, or railway, construction work which the men born and bred in the country would refuse to accept. Throughout the Malay States, there are lonely graves of these men of the early days, and of men too of our own times."

("JAFFNESE" are Ceylonese from the Northern Province of Ceylon).

His Excellency Sir Hugh Clifford, G.C.M.G., G.B.E., said as follows, during his period of office as the High Commissioner for the Malay States, at a Public Function held on the 6th January, 1928, at Kuala Lipis, the Capital of the State of Pahang:

"I remember the very early days when the Tamils of Jaffna came down to this country rather apprehensively - to a country that was known to the pioneers only of the Malay States - and the part they played as road overseers, survey officers and clerks in Government Offices at a time when it was exceedingly difficult to persuade the Straits men to leave the Colony and to seek their fortunes in this out-of-the-way part of the world. This State owed much to the Jaffna Tamil."

===== Page 15 =====
5. Since the time of British Protection, a large number of Ceylonese have made Malaya their home, so that there is at present a strong community of Ceylonese in almost all the States and Settlements. They occupy not only many responsible places in the Government Service, but also have vested interests in Agriculture, Planting, Mining and Commerce, besides those who practise the learned professions of Law, Medicine, Architecture, etc.

6. The valuable contribution which the Ceylonese have made towards the growth and development of the Malay States and the important place which they do at present occupy in the economy of these States were borne in mind and given practical expression to by the then Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Straits Settlements and High Commissioner for the Malay States when His Excellency Sir Hugh Clifford, G.C.M.G., G.B.E., pronounced in 1928 from his place as the President of the Federal Council the decision of the Government to grant a seat in that Council for a representative of the Ceylonese and Indian Communities, whose first representative was the Hon'ble Mr. S. Veerasamy, who also served as a Member of the Selangor State Council.

When Mr. S. Veerasamy ceased to be a Member of the Council of State of Selangor, Mr. J. R. Vethavanam, a prominent Ceylonese, was appointed, in 1935, to that Council to serve as the Representative of the Indians and Ceylonese in the State.

When the Government decided upon granting representation for the Ceylonese and Indians in the premier State of the Federation - Perak -, Mr. S. Seenivasagam, another Ceylonese, was appointed Member of the Council of State of Perak.

Dr. N. Moothathamby, also a Ceylonese, was invited to represent the Indians and Ceylonese in the State Council of Johore.

7. The decision of the Governments of the Malay States to provide for the representation of the Indian and Ceylonese Communities through only one nominated Member of Council in each State was influenced largely by the fact that in Malaya the Indians and Ceylonese had lived most happily for over half-a-century, having their common social, religious and general needs served by common

===== Page 16 =====
Institutions, temples, schools, religious organizations, sports clubs, etc.

8. In recent years, however, as a result of divergent political thoughts between the Indians and Ceylonese in this country, accentuated by the political differences between the Governments of Ceylon and India, the two communities have been driven asunder. Suspicion and mistrust of each other are unfortunately gaining ground.

9. The circumstances outlined in paragraph 8 above are creating anxieties among thoughtful men of both communities who feel that the jealousy and animosity which are being fostered by the changed conditions will cease to find excuse for further growth, if the government were pleased to provide separate representation for the Ceylonese in the councils of the country.

10. The Ceylonese of Malaya do, therefore, fervently pray that the government may generously be pleased to consider their just claims for direct representation in the councils and other public bodies of the government.

11. The Ceylonese feel that the time and present world conditions do not justify public expression of their feelings in platforms or through the press, and, therefore, present their case through this memorandum.

We beg to remain,

Sir,

Your most obedient servants,

For and on behalf of the Ceylonese of Malaya,

CONFERENCE OF CEYLON ASSOCIATIONS OF MALAYA,

(M. Saravanamuthu of Penang),

PRESIDENT.

(M. Saravanamuthu of Kuala Lumpur),

General Secretary.

===== Page 17 =====
50007
183

===== Page 18 =====
Petitions. Ceylonese community in Malaya. 1940. MS Records of the British Colonial Office CO 273/660/7. The National Archives (Kew, United Kingdom). State Papers Online Colonial, link.gale.com/apps/doc/YMHDKF193852548/SPOC?u=nuslib&sid=bookmark-SPOC&xid=0c9da1cd. Accessed 28 Feb. 2026.

Gale Document Number: GALE|YMHDKF193852548

