===== Page 1 =====
CLOSED UNTIL C.O.273/678/101946
1997 51038 1946

51038

S
1691

Post-War Reorganisation and Development of Education in Malaysia.

A. Memorandum by: R. Henderson.

Previous

Subsequent

Room 2014. 21/44

Mr. Morgan 2014

PUT BY

CO 273/678/10

1997

===== Page 2 =====
POST-WAR REORGANISATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF EDUCATION IN MALAYA

===== Page 3 =====
1. From Mr. R. Henderson, following Memorandums 10/45
2. From Henderson — 22/1/46
3. To Henderson — 29/1/46
4. From Henderson — 9/2/46
5. To Henderson — 12/2/46

This morning.

I do not think any action is necessary for the present memorandum on L. Henderson's handwriting, which I have briefly discussed with L. Henderson.

L. Henderson has sent a notice of our complaint, which will draw parallels with a new Technical College.

It will be a matter for decision whether this material is sent to Malaya when affairs there become more normal.

When L. Henderson appears before the Sub-Commission of the A.C.E.C. to give them the book frame of education in Malaya, he will refer to technical education.

L. Henderson
12/2/46

===== Page 4 =====
I discussed this point here ago with the Chancellor, the Director of Education, the Malayan Division, whose advice was as follows.

Put by:
Mrs. Harper
23/8 atna.

===== Page 5 =====
Palace Chambers,
Bridge Street,
S.W.1.

12th February, 1946.

Dear Henderson,

Thank you for your copies of the "block" plan of the proposed new Technical College.

Yours sincerely,

R. HENDERSON, ESQ.

===== Page 6 =====
DRAFT AND RECORD COPY

LETTER
SEN.

REGISTERED No.

Palace Chambers,
Bridge Street.

DATE
12th February, 1946.

DRAFT

MR. Robison.

MR.

MR.

Dear Henderson,

Thank you for your copies of the "block" plan of the proposed new Technical College.

Yours sincerely,

R. HENDERSON, ESQ.

FURTHER ACTION

To

(11/44) [3693] Wt. 43090/394 50m. 12/44 C.N.Ld. 748

===== Page 7 =====
Dear Mr. Robison,

Thank you for your letter acknowledging copies of my memorandum and plans.

I now send copies of the "block" plan of the proposed new Technical College. This completes the diagrams to accompany the memorandum.

Yours sincerely,

R. Henderson

===== Page 8 =====
DRAFT AND RECORD COPY

REGISTERED No.

LETTER SENT

DATE

DRAFT

MR. Robison. 29/1/46.

MR.

MR.

Palace Chambers,
Bridge Street,
S.W.1.

29th January, 1946.

Dear Henderson,

Thank you very much indeed for sending us eight sets of plans and diagrams which are the illustrations referred to in your memorandum "Post-War Reorganisation and Development of Education in Malaya." I hope to be able to send you further comments when your memorandum has been carefully considered. At the next meeting of the Advisory Committee on Education in the Colonies it is hoped that a Sub-Committee will be formed to deal with educational problems in the Far East.

I will let you know later whether it will be necessary to trouble you for further copies of the memorandum or sets of plans.

Yours sincerely,

Assistant Educational Adviser.

To

R. HENDERSON, ESQ.

===== Page 9 =====
INDIO
BOVEY TRACEY
S. DEVON

22nd Jan. 1946

The Under Secretary of State,
Colonial Office,
Downing Street,
London S.W.1.

Sir,

For the attention of the Adviser on Education

I have the honour to forward herewith eight sets of plans and diagrams, being the illustrations referred to in my memorandum "Post-War Reorganisation and Development of Education in Malaya" of which eight copies were forwarded to you early last month.

I shall be pleased to forward further copies of the memorandum or sets of plans, if required.

I have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servant,

P. Henderson

===== Page 10 =====
For the attention of the Adviser on Education

INDIO
BOVEY - TRACEY
S. DEVON

1st December 1945

The Under Secretary of State,
Colonial Office,
London, S.W.1

Sir,

I have the honour to forward for your consideration, under separate cover, eight copies (more can be supplied if required) of a memorandum entitled "Post-War Re-organisation and Development of Education in Malaya".

This memorandum was drafted during the first year of internment, partly as a means of mental escape but in the main as a contribution to the war effort denied to us in other directions by internment, and revised during the years which followed. It will be observed that it is framed as a continuous narrative, in order to emphasise the continuity of education. This, together with the length, has the disadvantage of making reference to specific detail difficult, and to obviate this a precis will be found on page 50.

The subject matter is based upon eighteen years of 'practical' and technical education in England, with teaching experience in Elementary, Secondary, Technical and Art Schools. As a tutor and head of department for four years upon the staff of a residential Training College for Teachers, I gained valuable knowledge of the special problems presented by an institution of this type, while responsibility for the purchase of commodities used in the College, together with the design and supervision of

===== Page 11 =====
About £20,000 worth of building, provided valuable administrative experience. This was followed by five years on the staff of the Lancashire County Education Committee, organising practical subjects in 1,000 elementary departments, 50 secondary schools, 6 technical schools, and School of Art. I also organised and on occasion conducted teachers' classes, including a ten-day residential course for specialist teachers. Again, too, being qualified in Architecture, I acted for the Lancashire Education Committee as liaison officer when the £12,000,000 building programme necessitated employment of twelve independent architects. This, together with responsibility for the furnishing and equipment of all 'practical' rooms in schools in the County, gave special opportunity for developing a special interest in modern school building and equipment. Further, holding patent rights in five inventions, I gained valuable experience of industry through contacts arising from the manufacture and marketing of these inventions. Consequently, this experience, probably unique in variety and scope, provided a useful background for an objective assessment of the 'practical' and technical educational needs of Malaya, while just over two years experience in Malaya prior to capitulation, together with three and a half years internment, enabled due consideration to be given to the special needs of Malaya.

Believing that speed in re-organisation is vital to success, I have sent (a) eight copies so that each member of the Advisory Council may, if he wishes, have a copy to study when convenient, (b) the memoranda without the charts and plans referred to in the text, as these are not quite ready. They will, however, be forwarded shortly.

===== Page 12 =====
A number of government officers have read this report in its draft stage, including Messrs. Wiseberg, C. Dawson, F. Shepherd, and P. Gray, of the Malayan Civil Service; Justice Cussens, Malayan Legal Service; Deputy Director / Adviser on Education, Mr. H. R. Cheeseman; Deputy / Adviser Tele-Communications, Mr. Dowse.

I trust this memorandum will be of assistance to you in your deliberations. I should like to add that, whether or not I take any part in Malayan reorganisation, it is my sincere hope that this memorandum will prove to be a contribution to the future happiness of the people of Malaya, who have suffered so terribly at the hands of the Japanese.

I have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your obedient servant,

===== Page 13 =====
POST-WAR REORGANISATION & DEVELOPMENT OF EDUCATION IN MALAYA

A MEMORANDUM BY R. HEADERSON.

Meanwhile, if these hours be dark, at least do not let us sit deedless, like fools and fine gentlemen, thinking the common toil not good enough for us and beaten by the muddle; but rather let us work like good fellows trying by some dim candle-light to set out workshop ready against to-morrow's daylight.

William Morris.

===== Page 14 =====
1. THE STREAM OF WORLD PROGRESS CANNOT BE DAMMED. How are we—the citizens of the world today—to bridge the stream which flows from the hinterland of yesterday to the ocean of tomorrow? We cannot, if we would, dam the stream, for it is the channel of life which links the great things of the past with the vast possibilities of the future. Wars may temporarily stem the flow of progress, of freedom, of living, but only to provide new impetus. Man must go forward. It is his duty and privilege to do so in order to share in the good things of the earth, or otherwise he must remain in an eddy of outworn creeds or ideas.

2. REAL PROGRESS DEPENDS UPON THE HAPPINESS OF THE INDIVIDUAL. The world moves towards a greater measure of happiness because man's greatest desire is for happiness. "Happiness is not an outward condition but an inward condition." What constitutes happiness varies with the individual, for it is "not what you have, who you are, or where you are or what you are doing that gives happiness. It is what you think about it." Consequently, individual happiness is best expressed as the ability to live a whole life. Professor William James of Harvard has said, "Compared to what we ought to be we are only half awake. We are making use of only a small part of our physical and mental resources. The human individual lives far within his limits. He possesses powers of various sorts which he habitually fails to use." On this estimate, the potential 'whole' is but half a man with half a measure of happiness, while recurring tides of misery sweep the world and make the grasp of the other half seemingly impossible.

3. MAN MUST BUILD IN THE PRESENT FOR THE FUTURE. Given the powers of creation, man must go on creating not only his own kind but the things which will make life more pleasant, more interesting, and more satisfying. The man of today creates the things and conditions of tomorrow; he thinks forward as he must go forward, and we of today have to create and build the things and conditions which our children will experience and we hope find good.

4. THE AIM MUST BE POSITIVE (PEACE-PRODUCING), NOT NEGATIVE (WAR-PRODUCING). "The art of building is to make a place for living in, at its simplest as a protection and at its most complex stage for all operations and interests of the person for whom it is designed." We have to build a world for our children to live in. Are we to be content with a primitive structure because we have only used half our physical and mental resources? Is this the reason why in fighting the last war to end war our efforts proved abortive? War is a negation of progress, so perhaps if this time we resolve the negative of war into the positive of peace we shall be more successful, and see at last a new order giving greater freedom. Happiness is the art we pursue, and "Art is the ordered selection of things giving pleasure to the mind through the senses."

5. EDUCATION CAN MAKE A CONTRIBUTION. The purpose of this memorandum is not to indulge in vague generalisations but to examine past conditions and from this see how far education can contribute to the happiness of all and so move a step nearer to the creation of the 'whole' man. Education, its aim or purpose, has been defined in many ways—"Education is the ability to meet life's situations." Herbert Spencer has said, "The great aim of education is not knowledge but action," and it is through action that education can become "design for living." Since then education is preparation for living, i.e., ability to meet life's situations, it cannot disclaim all responsibility for the past state of affairs. Its responsibility may or may not have been large, but just as a house is for living in, so a school or educational institution is for growing in. The tree grows the way the twig is bent, and past events suggest that education has bent in the direction of the acquisition of knowledge, i.e., the assimilation of facts, rather than build character which is an attitude of mind tuned to use knowledge in a way that will make it a contribution to human progress and happiness.

===== Page 15 =====
6 EDUCATION MUST POSSESS FLUIDITY. Education being essentially 'design for living', its success or its right to be considered a factor in determining the 'shape of things to come' will depend upon its suitability for its purpose. Education, like man, must go on. It will go on despite all economic and political changes, but it must be prepared and willing to meet and adjust itself to new conditions. It must have a fluidity which will enable it to meet every change however drastic. With so much in a state of flux, it cannot afford to remain aloof, but must flow with the new stream while retaining its identity and purpose. It must be crystal clear in its purpose and its identity be seen in the way it colours man's minds giving new colour to life. Crystal clarity will only be obtained by eliminating the sediment of false tradition, of outworn ideas, of sentiment instead of reason. Colour will be gained when education has a positive objective of its own; when it has a constancy unaffected by political or economic fluctuations.

7 THE RATE & NATURE OF PROGRESS WILL VARY. The dangers which face education are not, by any means, all from without, even though the problem is world wide and differing only in degree from country to country. Since the solution is of the greatest importance to mankind it must be a proper one given both by the world and by education itself. It is of particular importance to those countries which have responsibilities towards other countries and races, for it involves a variation in speed of development according to the stage reached by each individual race. Nowhere is this variation more marked than in the British Empire, consequently it would be reasonable to assume that post-war development of education presents more difficulties for Great Britain than for any other country. This would be so but for the years of experience, far in excess in variety and time of any other nation, enjoyed by the Colonial Office. Further the reputation of this directing force for genuine concern in the welfare of the peoples in the Colonies, together with the permanence given by freedom from political changes, inspires a measure of confidence which is valuable factor in progress and development. Again too, the peoples of the colonies have been encouraged in times of stress by the declaration of policy contained in the pledge "equal opportunity for all irrespective of race, colour or creed" and believe this pledge will be implemented. These are positive factors engendering success and giving prospect of realisation.

8 EDUCATION AS COMPENSATION. Educational opportunity for dependent peoples may easily be of wider import. In colonies devastated by war equitable compensation for loss and suffering can never be made good in terms of money or materials. Consequently, an improved system of education giving better opportunities to coming generations is a method of providing compensation well worth consideration.

9 HOW CAN THIS BE DONE? The pledge having been given; the will to do being manifest, it remains to define the aim of education and give it practical expression.

10 NOT ABSTRACT IDEALISM BUT PRACTICAL SOLUTION. What is to be the aim of post-war Education? To help all to achieve a greater measure of individual happiness? To help man to live a full and useful life? To achieve a state of mind whereby men live in unity and thus ensure a cessation of the tragedy, horror and waste of war? Each and all of those things, if achieved through education, would make education of major importance for they would be positive steps towards the creation of a new world. The world, however, will not be content with glib assurances that education is contributing real value by such intangible things impossible of assessment. Its standard is still a 'gold standard' and since education costs money something tangible must be offered in order to carry public confidence. Education must 'deliver the goods' in a manner satisfactory to the man in the street, to the man who finds the money to pay for it. One contribution capable of assessment would be the creation of a state of mind as a result of which we should have a world in peace for a span of forty years instead of a maximum of twenty years followed by a war of four years or more. Forty years of education will not cost a tithe of a four year war, and once forty years of peace are achieved there is every reason to believe the period can be extended indefinitely.

===== Page 16 =====
11 A STATE OF MIND TO BE CREATED.

This desirable state of mind is that of the whole man for the whole man is self-sufficient, containing within himself all those things which make for happiness. This being so, there is no occasion to covet anything belonging to his neighbour and amity becomes a positive fact. The new world which we hope will be ushered in by peace, and of which men have dreamed and by which they have sustained themselves during the time of war, will remain a dream unless we set to work to build it. The quality of the building will be in our hands. It will require careful planning, proper supervision and the employment of suitable labour and materials. Without this no expenditure of money and time will produce that which will endure, mellowing and not rusting with the passage of years, and remaining a monument to such vision, effort and energy as we have given to the task.

12 THE PAST TO BE EXAMINED.

The new educational edifice must of necessity be built upon pre-war foundations which possess a legacy of pre-war dangers and defects. Haste to build may create a tendency to assume the old foundations are adequate and sound, and without thorough survey may cause the first crack in the new walls. The old foundations go deep. They are hallowed by tradition, sentiment and custom. They are probably in the main sound, but being sound does not necessarily mean they are efficient. In fact their efficiency may bear the same relation to the new structure as the old fashioned coal range does to the modern cooker.

13 THIS EXAMINATION AN ESSENTIAL PRELIMINARY.

Education must therefore take note and incorporate in its plan all things which will increase efficiency. There must be no defection or even contentment with pre-war levels. It must go out to the world and display its quality with frankness and honesty. It must, since education is a continuative process covering the span of man's life, offer something to all men and not be restricted any longer to the young and privileged few. It means a programme boldly conceived and boldly carried out. It means vigour and determination; and means an immediate and thorough survey of the old.

14 DANGER OF POST-WAR INERTIA & PESSIMISM.

The post-war dangers which face education are not by any means all from without. The inevitability of post-war educational re-organization and development is the first danger to be faced. The danger is that being inevitable, it may produce a fatalistic acceptance and a readiness to be carried upon the tide of events instead of striking out towards a definite objective. Such an attitude links up all too easily with post-war inertia, a state of mind produced by the emotional and physical 'letdown' which invariably follows a period of concentrated or sustained effort. It is paralleled by those who see the best part of a life's work broken yet on account of their age lack the years to restore this work to even pre-war levels. Achievement is a mile-stone on the road to success, consequently, when the future offers no joy of achievement, employment of those lacking this quality will militate against success. Education also has among its workers those whose vision is permanently clouded by the tragedy of war and who therefore lack belief in the future.

15 THE PAST MUST NOT BLIND US TO PRESENT OPPORTUNITIES.

The horror and tragedy of war is real, but to see in war not only the horror and tragedy but also the opportunity is in no way to minimise reality. It is resolution not to be overwhelmed by tragedy and thus admit defeat in peace before we have experienced it. The opportunity is here to make a new start, a clean start unhampered and uncluttered with the dross which accumulated in the old building. It is opportunity such as has never occurred before and may never occur again. It is opportunity so pregnant with possibility that it may, if we have the wit to seize it, usher in a golden age.

===== Page 17 =====
16 THE OPPORTUNITY FOR EFFECTIVE RE-ORGANISATION. This opportunity exists as much for British possessions overseas as it does for the mother country. How far this opportunity will be exercised will depend upon the extent to which a definite policy is enunciated and backed by the Colonial Office and the vigour and determination with which this policy is carried out by those entrusted with its operation. Both are equally important since without basic principles, clear cut and definite in scope, the policy will lose force and clarity when mixed with local colour, prejudice and tropical somnolence. This memorandum is intended to be a contribution towards proper translation of educational policy into positive achievement so that it may be operated undiminished in one part of Britain overseas. To this end, pre-war conditions are reviewed, the factors likely to prove inimical to success indicated, and proposals for effective re-organisation outlined.

17 PRE-WAR VERNACULAR EDUCATION CONSIDERED. Pre-war educational provision is illustrated in a chart which accompanies the text. It shows a system of compulsory vernacular education (primary) for Malays and for Estate Indian children, together with private vernacular Chinese schools which received a grant from Government provided they applied for these grants and were awarded them on the ground of educational efficiency. It does not show the quality of education or the length of the course, nor does it show the numerical ratio of one race to another.

18 THE QUALITY & QUANTITY OF PRE-WAR VERNACULAR EDUCATION. The quality and amount of education available varies not only between races, but with each race according to whether the community is urban or rural. Thus Malays throughout Malaya receive a four year course, but in Singapore owing to lack of accommodation two to three thousand Malay children do not attend school. In towns, Indian children attend Aided or Government English schools, and in the country vernacular education is provided in schools established on Rubber plantations. Estate schools receive a grant from Government, but the standard of education is admittedly low owing to the tendency upon the part of Rubber companies to try to run the schools on the Government grant and thus lessen the charge upon the estate. The amount of grant makes this a frank impossibility.

19 NUMBERS IN RECEIPT OF EDUCATION. It is authoritatively estimated that taking towns and country together only fifty per cent of the Chinese school population receive any education. The quality of education in these schools varies considerably and in consequence the lapse into illiteracy is high. On the other side of the scale is the admitted four year course for Malays which exceeds the vernacular course in some of the other colonies (and in the Philippines and the Netherlands East Indies) by one year. At the same time it can hardly be claimed that this constitutes a valid reason for failure to provide for the Chinese who are numerically much the larger. Again it may be claimed that the lapse into illiteracy is proportionately less in Malaya, but it does not follow that the amount of education retained from this mengro schooling is necessarily sufficient, or that it represents a fair return for the money expended.

20 UNDER-CAPITALISATION. The position is similar to that which may be found in business, i.e., it is under-capitalisation of the mental content of the country, yielding a disproportionate return on initial capital, yet given a little more in the shape of education of the right type for all children over a longer period of time would create a flourishing concern with high return on the relatively low extra cost.

21 VERNACULAR EDUCATION EAS POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC INFLUENCE. Vernacular education cannot be divorced from the life of the country for it exerts important political and economic influence. Exploitation of child labour can be checked by a compulsory educational system, but it is difficult to eradicate under present conditions when the alternative to a child working is for him to do nothing. It is also the firm opinion of certain of the Chinese Secretariat whose work is mainly concerned with women and girls that many of the existing evils would be checked if compulsory education were

===== Page 18 =====
Provided, since much of the trouble which these women and girls experience is not due to inherent weakness, but to lack of care and protection during adolescence because the parents are at work and the children are left unattended in 'kongai' houses. Again, complaints from the Government about the teaching of communist doctrines in certain Chinese schools led to the not-illegal reply that since the Government did not provide education for the children, it could hardly complain of the subject matter taught in private schools. Further, it cannot be too strongly emphasized that a semi-illiterate or totally illiterate labour force provides ideal material for the political agitator to work upon, and that no system of trade unionism will protect the worker from exploitation or unrest unless the worker is sufficiently educated to be able to gain some idea of the issues involved.

22 INCREASE IN ENGLISH EDUCATION WILL NOT HELP. The solution is not provision of English education (i.e. education given in English and academic in type). The average Asian regards this as an open sesame to employment in Government service and Malaya already suffers from overproduction of 'white collar' workers. As in England, the way to solve this problem is to divert this stream so that the industrial pursuits of the country are properly balanced. Any excess of academically educated implies a certain number of mis-educated, who, finding no outlet for their talents, foster dissatisfaction and unrest. Further, it is axiomatic that to a large degree, the faculty for learning is greater with those having a hereditary background of scholarship; the children of a learned or scholarly class showing greater facility than those with untutored or unlettered parents. A brief study of the history of immigration in Malaya shows that the majority of Chinese and Indians entering this country are of the 'cooly' class, i.e., unskilled manual workers, and therefore hardly the material to benefit from an academic education based upon a classical tradition. The Malays too are primitive in outlook, being free and easy and happy-go-lucky, though often with charming manners.

23 ENGLISH NOT THE MOTHER TONGUE. Again, this education is not given in the mother tongue but in English (it is authoritatively estimated that barely 20% of the students attending English or Aided schools come from English-speaking homes) and in consequence education does not become learning but an exhibition of prodigious feats of memory; whole pages being memorised without any real understanding of the text. A natural development from this is superficiality, verbose and empty speech, trite quotations and clichés in writing commonplace.

24 EDUCATION IS WANTED. It would, however, be a mistake to imagine that Chinese, Indians and Malays do not want education, because all the evidence is to the contrary. It is therefore of the highest importance that the type of education should be suitable to their needs, for the alternative is the creation of a mis-educated minority loud in their demands for self-government without the basic requirements which would justify the provision. There are already signs of similar developments in Malaya to those which have created problems in India.

25 CO-ORDINATION WITH ENVIRONMENT & CIVIC RESPONSIBILITIES. Education must be so co-ordinated with the life of the country that the needs of the country in every sphere of activity are fully met. The purpose of education is not to create dissatisfaction and striving merely for a luxury job, for this is to seek after the false gods of respectability and of manhood. Its task is to produce citizens, conscious of the value, dignity and necessity of their labour which should be according to the ability of each individual.

26 BALANCE BETWEEN PRODUCTION & CONSUMPTION. A community balanced economically is one that meets the labour needs of every form of industry without knowing

===== Page 19 =====
Serious unemployment or shortage. The degree to which it is out of balance is shown not by the total number of unemployed but by the number of unemployed skilled workers, i.e., trained producers. Skill is acquired at a certain cost, but unused it deteriorates quickly and after a period of time cannot be reacquired; in consequence, the loss to the community is threefold - cost of training wasted, skilled labour unused, loss of productive personnel. Unemployment on the part of the repetition workers or unskilled or casual labour is not so serious in that the loss is confined to the labour unused. A certain corrective to these conditions can be given by a proper system of education, i.e., one which provides adaptability and intelligence, for it can then be swung in any direction where shortage exists. Adaptability and intelligence is a sound basis upon which to build specialised knowledge or skill.

27 SOUND VERNACULAR EDUCATION MEANS A HAPPY & TOLERANT COMMUNITY. Proper vernacular education is, therefore, a prime factor in the life of an ordered contented community. A proper system of vernacular education is one that has a common purpose, namely production of intelligent citizens, conscious of their stake in the country. There can be no divided loyalties for this is to put race or creed before national consciousness. Europe has produced ample evidence of the disruptive effect of religious prejudice and racial minorities upon the well-being of the community, and should be more than sufficient to demonstrate that only by unification and a common purpose in vernacular education can we expect to see a happy and tolerant community.

28 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL. Equal educational opportunity for all implies the removal of the horizontal barriers of wealth, class or privilege. This will mean a firm resolve not to let custom, precedent, or vested interest stand in the way of the general good. The most opportune time to effect unification and singleness of purpose will be the immediate postwar years, and must in fact be decided then, for re-establishment of the old system would mean that instead of singleness of purpose given through control by a central authority, there would form subsidy of private and other schools. Efficiency under this system would be attained only by a large inspectorial staff to ensure efficient teaching.

29 THE CHANGE MUST BE GRADUAL. Even if unlimited funds were available, immediate creation of a full range compulsory vernacular educational system is a frank impossibility. Teachers must be trained and the project developed at a rate which the country can afford and without any lessening of the standard set. Indifferent or poorly qualified teachers will negate all chances of success and constitute a waste of public money. They also form in later years a liability which cannot be written off, but has to be carried until the retirement of those concerned.

30 SENIOR & JUNIOR DEPARTMENTS PROPERLY STAFFED. Informed opinion believes that the only sound and economic method of developing this project is gradually to transform existing vernacular schools, through the appointment of trained teachers, into junior and senior departments. These trained teachers being better qualified and of superior calibre will give a practical bias to senior work. Objection to their appointment by racial groups will be overcome by (a) Teachers being of the same race (b) The salary of the teacher being paid by Government instead of the subsidy given at present.

31 PROGRESS DEPENDENT UPON NUMBER OF TRAINED TEACHERS. The advantage of a more highly qualified teacher at no cost to the school concerned will be apparent to all, and in the course of time, as the supply of teachers increases, more and more will be appointed until the whole of the teaching staff concerned with senior age groups will be of this type and a sound fully established senior school system an accomplished fact. Through this system of penetration local and racial prejudice or opposition to a national system of education will be overcome and the goal which education has set itself fully achieved.

===== Page 20 =====
32 THE JUNIOR SCHOOL TO BE DEVELOPED AFTER THE SENIOR SCHOOL. It will remain for the penetration to be carried down into the Junior vernacular school to give unification and control of a full age range vernacular school system throughout the country.

33 THE AIM OF THE VERNACULAR SCHOOL THE SAME AS THE PRIMARY SCHOOL IN ENGLAND. The vernacular school should do and can do all those things which the primary school can do in England. These things are summed up in the Board's 'Book of Suggestions to Teachers' as being "(1) to provide the kind of environment which is best suited to individual and social development; (2) to stimulate and guide healthy growth in this environment; (3) to enable children to acquire the habits, skills, knowledge, interests and attitudes of mind which they will need for living a full and useful life; and (4) to set standards of behaviour, effort and attainment, by which they can measure their own conduct." "It is obvious that the school can fulfil these functions only if it insists on thorough and effective work in the various daily tasks is provided, but the ultimate test must be whether it assists in the development of citizens who desire the common good and are prepared to make sacrifices to secure and maintain it; men and women, that is, who care for all that is lovely and of good report. For the fully educated person, we should do well to remember, is one who is enlightened in his interests, impersonal in his judgements, ready in his sympathy for whatever is just and right, effective in the work he sets himself to do, and willing to lend a hand to anyone who is in need of it."

34 THE QUALITY OF THE TEACHER IS OF VITAL IMPORTANCE. With this high objective before us, the quality of the teaching personnel is of paramount importance, and it is therefore dealt with in a separate part of this memorandum under the heading - para. 164 Training of Teachers in Arts & Crafts, and should be read in conjunction with the foregoing.

35 EDUCATION THROUGH THE MEDIUM OF ENGLISH IN THE AIDED & GOVERNMENT ENGLISH SCHOOLS & TECHNICAL HIGH SCHOOLS. Aided schools, i.e. those owned by Missions of various denominations and in receipt of Government grant, together with Government English schools, provide academic education equivalent to the secondary or Grammar school in England. Instruction is given in English, and with the feeder schools, i.e. those giving primary education in English, provide education for a number of children of all races from the age of six to eighteen.

36 THE PURSUIT OF 'WHITE COLLAR' OCCUPATIONS. While the number in receipt of this type of education would not perhaps be considered an unduly high proportion of the total school population in England where industrialism reaches a high peak; it is undoubtedly high for Malaya. In consequence, the number educated for and desirous of 'white collar' jobs greatly exceeds the number of posts available. Over production of goods or saturation of the labour market indicates lack of balance in the economic machine; indeed when this saturation applies to non-producers it becomes a positive liability or charge on the industry of the country. The 'Spens' report made public the concern with which considered and informed opinion in England viewed the decay in technical ability in industry, and made valuable recommendations whereby the stream flowing so strongly towards 'white collar' jobs could, through re-organisation, be diverted and manual or semi-manual occupations gain new status.

37 SCHOOLS WILL VARY IN FUNCTION & SCOPE. It is perhaps desirable at this point to define clearly the scope and function of each type of school in the proposed reorganisation and development. Thus, the re-organisation would include - (1) junior and senior vernacular schools (corresponding to the junior and senior schools in England): the boys from the senior school who do not enter the technical schools going into semi-skilled or unskilled occupations. (2) junior and senior English schools - into those will go (a)

===== Page 21 =====
The pupils gaining scholarships from the junior vernacular schools, (b) those reaching a sufficiently high standard in the junior vernacular schools to qualify for transfer as paying pupils, (c) those who speak English in the home (for whom English may be regarded as a vernacular). (3) Technical schools (particularly the techni-factories, see para. 59 below) - they will train the skilled tradesmen or artisans (like the present trade schools). (4) Technical high schools, a preparation for the Technical College and also for posts in industry and training requiring training of this type but not the full professional qualification of the technician. (5) Secondary schools, providing an academic course leading to clerical and commercial posts and to Raffles College and the College of Medicine.

39 RE-ORGANISATION ENVISAGED BEFORE THE WAR. Reorganisation upon these lines was the policy of the Department of Education prior to the war. This policy was presented to and accepted in principle by Government and can now be adopted in practice. It provides for vacancies occurring in the European establishment to be filled by non-qualified in technical education. This was regarded as possible on account of the increasing number of Raffles College graduates qualified to take over work in the English schools formerly taken by Europeans. This proposal is exceptionally important since it vitally affects finance. It is therefore dealt with more fully in the section of the memorandum devoted to the cost of a re-organised system of education.

40 NUMBERS IN RECEIPT OF ENGLISH EDUCATION. While the matters dealt with above may appear to be irrelevant to English academic education, they are in fact in strict relation to the problem in that they affect the numbers who are to receive academic education in the future. Authoritative opinion has expressed the view that the numbers in receipt of academic education might be halved, and this opinion if accepted will mean review of all schools providing academic education, and decision as to which should be converted into Technical High schools. In centres where two or more schools formerly provided academic education, bifurcation into academic and technical streams will not be unduly difficult. Where, however, only one school exists it may be necessary to provide a multi-bias curriculum on the lines recommended for rural secondary schools in the Spens Report.

41 QUALIFICATIONS OF EUROPEAN STAFF. This post-war reorganisation will provide excellent opportunity for determining the qualifications which should be held by all European teaching personnel. Unity of purpose will only be effected by requiring that all European teaching staff in English and Technical High Schools shall hold British qualifications. Insistence upon this from the beginning will ensure the maintenance of uniform standards of qualification and obviate the difficulties which will arise if the matter is left for later determination.

42 TECHNICAL EDUCATION. ITS RELATION TO GENERAL EDUCATION, MINOR INDUSTRIES, AND NATIONAL WELL-BEING. If education may be defined as the process whereby man 'learns to live', then it cannot afford to be considered as only a preliminary phase but must be recognised as a continuing process covering the span of man's years.

43 RECOGNITION OF THE VALUE OF ALL TYPES OF EDUCATION. Despite the tendency to believe that education commences and finishes with the period covered by 'school-days,' true education must start at birth and cease only at death. The problem, therefore, is to create a state of mind whereby education will be taken out of its cloistered seclusion and made an interesting and integral part of man's whole life. To achieve this a new sense of values must be inculcated, so that the public generally recognises the value of all forms of education rather than the false worship given to a particular type and stage, such as that leading to and finishing with matriculation or the school certificate.

===== Page 22 =====
44. THE TYPE OF TRAINING REQUIRED. The 'Spens' Report made public the concern with which considered and informed opinion in England viewed the decay in technical ability in industry, and made valuable recommendations whereby the stream flowing so strongly towards 'white collar' jobs could, through re-organisation, be diverted and manual occupation gain new status. If this is necessary in England, it is even more necessary in the Colonies—the producers of raw material and partly fabricated material for industry—where there is no established tradition of craftsmanship or plentiful display of skilled work. There is no more case for producing 'robots' in the Colonies than in England; in fact considerably less, for the opportunities to assimilate culture, breadth of mind and fertility of resource are definitely more limited. Responsibility for a Colony implies development of its people towards a state whereby they can achieve self-government and personal self-sufficiency, and thus enjoy the fruit of their labour. Our mandate is to train individuals not only to be skilled in their work but also able to find in their work interest and fulfilment. They must be given not only the hand skill but also the mental equipment which will make them intelligent, balanced and reasoning individuals, so that each may live a full and useful life.

45. TECHNICAL EDUCATION NOT SOMETHING APART. Technical education cannot therefore be something apart. Its roots should be found in the Junior and Senior School, the stem in the Trade or Technical schools and the fruit in the adult life of every individual engaged in productive industry. A live system of education is therefore not only concerned with the human material which it has in training, but is also cognizant of the work in primary schools and also of the requirements and openings in the labour market. It is obviously wasteful to train labour for a branch of industry in which there are no openings, or to train in excess of the number which a particular industry can absorb. A skilled man without employment is a greater liability to a country than an unskilled man content to idle, for a skilled man must keep in practice if he is to retain his skill whereas the unskilled man having nothing to give has nothing to lose. A few unemployed skilled men are but a small ripple on the surface of the community, but they none the less affect the surface smoothness. It affects the employer, the community as a whole, and as the number of unemployed skilled men increases the ripples extend until finally the whole surface is agitated, and the community reaches a dangerous state of unrest.

46. THE LABOUR MARKET MUST BE EXPLORED. Technical education, properly coordinated with the new life of the community, should be the pulse which will register, at any time, present and future demands upon the system. It should be in a position to gauge not the requirements of the moment but those of three, five or ten years hence. It should also be a research laboratory, exploring and charting potential new openings and industries, concerning itself with the proper employment of its trainees in the best interests of the community. The true 'capital' of a country is its people, and this is of far greater importance than the importation of speculative capital.

47. THE COMMUNITY HAS A STAKE IN EMPLOYMENT. Any country which has suffered serious devastation as a result of war is likely to experience a long period of labour dislocation if labour is to be a matter for private enterprise. 'Capital' will be licking its wounds and unprepared for fresh adventure. If this is the case it will rest with the community to provide a solution. The problem must be tackled with vision, courage and resolution for it is a proper solution, not a palliative, which is required. To achieve this, it is essential to remember that future benefits are as important as immediate employment. Projects must not be considered on a week-to-week basis but have a definite carry-over. Thus it will be no solution to state that a certain number of people are in employment at a given moment, but it will approach a solution if it can be said the work done will benefit not only those gaining a livelihood from it but also the community for some time to come. Projects beneficial to the community are such things as health, sanitation, social

===== Page 23 =====
Services (light, power, transport, hospitals, clinics, schools, libraries, centres of social activity, playing fields), all of which have room for expansion and improvement. Thus, erection of a hospital, a school, laying out playing fields, drainage, etc., not only provide useful employment but benefit the community for many years to come. The profit from such projects will not be shown in terms of money but in a contented, healthier population.

48. GOVERNMENT HAS A DUTY TO TRAIN LABOUR. It is not contended for one moment that all those in need of employment can be entered for through such projects of community value; many will find employment in the temporary reconstruction undertaken by private enterprise, but this can only be a temporary measure and we must be prepared for the slump which will follow the completion of essential work. Also, the problem is too large and the interests involved too many to give a complete solution, but it is contended that there should be a definite 'hard core' of community projects which will exercise a very definite influence, and which will expand as the programme gets under way. The community (the government) must take initial responsibility for the training and supply of skilled workers, and as numbers warrant it put into effect clauses in contracts insisting upon a definite quota of skilled workers, with 'fair wages.'

49. PRACTICAL WORK IN THE CURRICULUM OF ALL SCHOOLS. How can this hard core be created, particularly in the Colonies which have suffered from the war? It is axiomatic that the absence of a thing creates a need and from need comes design or intention. It can be illustrated by applying it to one social need, i.e., education. Opinion before the war indicated that re-organisation of education on practical lines was desirable, while now devastation through war shows it to be essential. Compulsory free education for all with a bias towards practical subjects means direct employment for teachers, manufacturers of educational requisites, masons, bricklayers, carpenters, and cabinet makers. It also influences brick and concrete manufacturers, metal workers, plumbing trades, electricity and electrical trades, forestry, papermaking, etc. It will provide a big decrease in illiteracy and ignorance, and thus make better citizens. It will lessen the number of square pegs in round holes, for practical subjects will give indication of aptitude and thus ensure better distribution into academic and practical streams. It will lessen labour unrest, for the worker of the future will no longer be the credulous prey of the unscrupulous agitator. It will mean equal educational opportunity for all because selection for further education will depend upon the ability and aptitude shown in the work of the child and thus lessen the effect of nepotism and undue influence.

50. RECONSTRUCTION OF ECONOMIC LIFE. Reconstruction of Malaya's economic life, together with the re-organisation of civil government will involve strenuous effort plus wise direction. It is obvious that much must be done quickly, and therefore it is likely to be cast upon the old pattern, though it is to be hoped it will have elasticity and a degree of vision previously unknown.

51. THE VALUE OF MINOR INDUSTRIES. Malaya's major industries - tin and rubber - have sufficient knowledgeable men, together with generous Government assistance to re-establish these industries competently and quickly. But while these industries provide a livelihood for many thousands, there is still the general economic life which exists in the form of numerous smaller industries and the ancillary forms of labour connected with them.

52. RE-CONSTRUCTION MUST BE ORDERLY & PROPERLY PLANNED. Apart from the value of this labour as part of national well-being, it is highly necessary that every effort should be made to provide as much employment as possible, for this will check pauperisation and deterioration of individual morale. From this aspect, rehabilitation of small industries is as important as major reconstruction and

===== Page 24 =====
should be dealt with just as energetically and wisely. It is a task requiring coordination of many activities as well as ample goodwill. The destruction and looting which has occurred provides opportunity for sound constructive work of a useful character, and it is this type of work which must be organised rather than engaging upon palliatives and labour projects of no permanent value. Urgent as the need for reconstruction may be, it is better to allow a short delay of a few months, so that work of a permanent nature may be undertaken, rather than to rush up temporary buildings which will be an eyesore and of little real labour value. Further, permanent structures provide a useful carry-over for home industries, which will need a productive outlet once the demand for munitions drops off. Reinforced concrete or steel framed buildings will provide for labour in Great Britain, as well as labour in Malaya—whereas a temporary structure will be neither serviceable nor require much skilled work.

53. BUILDINGS MUST BE CONSIDERED IN TERMS OF FUTURE NEEDS. Vested interests of pre-war occupation of land must not be allowed to interfere with wise layout or siting of buildings necessary for the social and cultural life of the people. Projects must display a measure of vision and far-sightedness so that they provide for the needs of the people ten to twenty years hence. There is no reason why haste should be allowed to date post-war projects, if qualities of decision and vision are displayed from the beginning.

54. TECHNICAL SCHOOLS MUST BE RE-ESTABLISHED QUICKLY. With these general considerations in mind, it is valuable to consider projects in terms of labour, social and cultural national well-being. Technical schools must be quickly re-established and expanded so that no considerable hiatus in age groups occur. The military forces demanded the trade schools of all plant and equipment and this must be replaced quickly from the huge surplus of machinery used in munition production.

55. THE SCOPE OF PRE-WAR TECHNICAL SCHOOLS. Pre-war technical schools numbered five; automobile engineering being the main trade in four and cabinet-making in the fifth. In addition, two schools offered a course in plumbing; one radio engineering; two an electrical course. Two new courses: (a) electricity with air-conditioning, (b) instrument making and repair, were about to be added at the outbreak of war. Tailoring had formerly been carried on in two schools, but one had been closed down and the closure or re-organisation of the other was under consideration.

56. THESE SCHOOLS WERE VOCATIONAL. The first engineering school was opened in Kuala Lumpur in 1926 and was the pattern upon which those that followed were based. The great success of these schools indicated not only the degree to which they fulfilled a definite need but are also a tribute to the ability and enthusiasm of the Superintendents or Chief Instructors who were unsparing in their effort to transmit their skill to the students. It may truly be said of these schools that they were of the type required for the stage of educational development covered by the last eighteen years, and for the needs of the country. The name "Trade School" indicated very clearly the conception and nature of their work. Being strictly vocational, concentration upon development of hand skill gave a reasonably high degree of craftsmanship and craft knowledge, and in consequence no difficulty was experienced in finding suitable employment in industry. In countries where practical activities have long been a feature of primary education, aptitude can be gauged and distributed in a direction most likely to benefit from academic or practical education. This condition does not apply to Malaya, consequently the results obtained by the Trade Schools were all the more laudable.

57. RE-ORGANISATION OF THE TECHNICAL SCHOOL FOR CABINET-MAKING. In 1940, inspection of the school specialising in Cabinet-making showed it to be in need either of closure as an admitted failure or of drastic re-organisation. Its condition was

===== Page 25 =====
Due to a wrong conception of the work and of the openings available for its trainees, it was designed to provide a three-year course in woodwork for Malays: the intention being that they should return to their kampongs and set up as handymen or village carpenters. This project was negatived from the beginning because woodwork is entirely in the hands of the Chinese and no openings existed for Malays. Then too, the instruction given in the school was deplorable; the standard attained being a waste of time and material, while the belief that upon completion of the course the students would be able to set up as master craftsmen had no foundation in fact.

58. THE BASIS OF RE-ORGANISATION. Re-organisation had as its basis opportunity for employment, together with initial employment under skilled direction, so that upon maturity the trainee would be entitled in every way to the rating of a master craftsman. The fact that woodworking was a family trade with the Chinese was also to be taken into consideration, in consequence it was necessary to create conditions which would provide the skilled direction for initial employment.

59. THE SCOPE OF THE RE-ORGANISED SCHOOL. The Government being a large consumer of wood products, approach was made through the Public Works Department, the responsible authority for the supply of furniture to Government offices and buildings. The proposal put forward was the creation of an efficient school for woodworking trades with a three-year course of instruction. Further, as an integral part of the building, a factory for the production of furniture at competitive prices was included. The factory was to be under the direction of the Superintendent of the school. At the conclusion of the three-year course, those students whose work merited it would be offered employment as improvers in the factory for a period of say, five years. Here, under skilled direction, they would acquire the degree of skill essential for rating as 'tradesmen'. During this period a small deduction was to be made from wages, and with a contribution from Government be set aside. If at the expiration of five years as improver, the trainee decided to set up as a master man, this sum would be available to him as capital. If, however, it was decided to retain him as a tradesman in the factory, contributions would be continued and form a provident or pensions fund; provision also being made for loans up to a certain percentage of the total contributions.

60. SCHEME DESIGNED TO GIVE WIDE EXPERIENCE. It was considered that the fundamental conditions which should pertain if success was to be ensured were (a) proper employment after training, (b) a reasonable period of time under skilled craftsmen, (c) training in an atmosphere of good craftsmanship, i.e., seeing good work in the course of construction; (d) opportunity to observe sound trade practice and finish, (e) an incentive to emulate the skill displayed, (f) opportunity to continue general education along with technical training, (g) a system of training giving experience in every branch of the trade and so equip trainees that they could set up as master craftsmen should they desire to do so.

61. THE INFLUENCE OF THE SUPERINTENDENT. The existing staff of the school was transferred or dismissed and a European Superintendent appointed who was not only highly skilled as a craftsman but fully conversant with local conditions as well. Within three months of re-organisation the standard had been improved out of all recognition, and this improvement was more than fully maintained during the nine months which followed. It is particularly unfortunate that the war should have terminated a project holding such promise of success.

62. SUCCESS & DEFECTS OF PRE-WAR TECHNICAL SCHOOLS. The success of the trade schools in the past - meeting as they did the needs of the country during a certain phase and period of educational development, should not blind us to the fact that this period and phase is past and that re-orientation towards a state suitable for post-war conditions is an imperative need. Post-war conditions will mean that changes tentatively contemplated before the war will now become essential. Training, purely vocational in character must give place

===== Page 26 =====
To technical education, i.e., a strong trade bias balanced and broadened by the addition of subjects of general educational value so that the intelligent, resourceful artisan needed by the country will be produced. Further, the country will need to increase the number of technical schools so that the quality of craftsmanship (admittedly low) will be raised in all trades. This expansion and re-orientation should not be considered apart from other types of education, for, as the 'Handbook of Suggestions' points out: "Certain aspects of life have assumed a greater importance than they had earlier in the century. In the modern world, education must take account of leisure no less than work. It will not be necessary to enlarge upon the fact that life is a less simple affair for all of us today. Social contacts are becoming more and more varied, and children will need to learn to mix with a greater variety of types of individual than their parents probably know and to understand the point of view of people in other lands beside their own. They will need, moreover, to accommodate themselves to sudden changes of procedures and methods in the occupations they are likely to take up, and even to be prepared to transfer themselves from one occupation to another and from one part of the country to another. The individual, therefore, must not only become more adaptable as a worker, but must also be in a position to select for himself some useful and worthy way of occupying his time. Believing too, as in this country we do, in a system of democracy, we realize that the average citizen must be a man or woman of common sense and breadth of view, and that positions of high responsibility must be open to the ablest citizens irrespective of their origin." "The aim of education should be to develop to the full the potentialities of every child at school in accord always with the general good of the community of which he is a member."

63. MANY TRADES TO BE CATERED FOR. With this in mind, it is apparent that the full potentialities of every child can only be developed if there are sufficient outlets for the diversity of skills and aptitudes of the whole child population. It is obvious that technical education confined to one, two or three trades will not meet this; consequently, the degree of expansion, the rate of development, and the diversity of skills and aptitudes must be carefully assessed. The hiatus occasioned by the war, together with the devastation and dislocation of industry, will call for careful judgement as to the priority of training which should be accorded to various trades.

64. THE EFFECT OF THE WAR ON POST-WAR PROPOSALS. The immediate post-war years must allow for the special conditions caused by the war. In motor-car engineering, the fact must be faced that, with the training of some hundreds of mechanics for the Services, coupled with the acute shortage of motor vehicles, there will be a surplus of mechanics. It would, therefore, be fundamentally unsound to hasten the re-establishment of technical schools with an automobile engineering bias. A gap of from two to three years will enable the position to be rectified and for training to be recommenced according to the outlet provided by a return to normal conditions.

65. CHANGE TO MODERN TECHNICAL SCHOOLS POSSIBLE WITH NEW SUPERINTENDENTS. The passage of time, together with the ravage of war, has created a condition in these four schools which suggests that no more opportune moment will occur for recasting the curriculum of these schools; for, by a combination of events, all four posts of Chief Instructor or Superintendent will be vacant, and should be filled by personnel conversant with the curricula of modern technical schools.

66. TRAINING OF MECHANICS TO BE DIVERTED. The suggested 'lag' in re-establishment does not mean that students who would normally train as mechanics should not receive any training at all, but that they should be trained in other trades. In this, it will not be sufficient to think only in terms of existing trades, but to consider new trades and occupations which might be developed in the interest of the community. The concern of education with industry is not in terms of monetary return, but in terms of employment beneficial to the individual.

===== Page 27 =====
and to the community. The return, then, which education should expect is the spectacle of ex-students usefully and happily employed.

67. TRAINING FOR & DEVELOPMENT OF NEW TRADES. The development of trades in the interest of the community, while it will involve a certain re-orientation of outlook in the field of economics, yet is one not anomalous to the changed world of the post-war era. It is a knitting together of the social fabric, for while 'capital's' interest in industry is monetary return, a community sponsored industry is return to the community in the form of useful employment. It becomes industry for the people by the people rather than financial reward for capital investment. This re-orientation does not necessarily imply competition or encroachment upon the legitimate field of opportunity for capital but recognition that there are certain conditions, or circumstances created by a combination of events which capital is not in a position to cure, and it therefore devolves upon the community to see these conditions are met in the best interests of all. Moreover, capital will actually gain by those community projects, for in addition to having a reserve of skilled labour upon which to draw, the burden of contribution to unemployment funds would be lightened.

68. TECHNIFACTORIES WILL OVERCOME OPPOSITION BY GUILDS. Examination of this problem indicates that, in areas where apprenticeship to the private or public employer is difficult or impossible, individual and community needs would best be met by developing the technifactory (technical school plus factory) project in various trades. Properly organised and directed there is no reason why projects of this description should not yield sufficient return to meet the whole cost of training, and with expansion, if and where warranted by community needs, yield good financial return to the community as well.

69. THE FIRST TECHNI-FACTORY SHOULD BE FOR CABINET-MAKING. Relating this to the destruction and looting occasioned by the war, it will be seen that one of the first projects to be initiated after the war should be a factory for the production of furniture. This should be centrally situated and form the pattern and training ground for similar factories to be set up in each State or Settlement. A suitable layout for a combined technical school and factory is given, the plan being designed to provide 'flow' on quantity production lines, while encouraging handskill to the fullest extent. The services of the Superintendent of Malacca Trade School should be secured for the control of the first technifactory, for he possesses both first class experience in England, and full knowledge of local conditions, and also the very necessary experience of management of a furniture factory in the East. These qualifications are positive factors to success which should be utilised to the full.

70. THE STAFF OF THE FIRST TECHNI-FACTORY. Bearing in mind the large demands which will be made upon the technifactory in the first few years, together with the possible development of suitable factories in other parts of the country, it will be sound economy, if viewed as a long term project and not as an ephemeral development, to staff the first technifactory with from four to six European craftsmen. The value of this proposal lies in the provision of (1) a high concentration of skill demanded by the volume of work required during the initial years; (2) skilled instruction by an augmented staff to allow for a larger intake of students than would normally occur; (3) experience under capable leadership for those Europeans in training and handling Asiatic labour, thus fitting them for appointment as Superintendent in the technifactory to be erected elsewhere; (4) insurance against appointment of a superintendent (direct from England) who showed himself after appointment to be unfitted for the post; (5) opportunity for the European staff to acquire a colloquial knowledge of Malay and understanding of local races. The key to success in every school or business lies with the 'Head', and the above scheme provides a means of ensuring that each technifactory shall be as efficient as it is possible to make it.

===== Page 28 =====
71. A POST-WAR BUILDING PROGRAMME. The post-war period will reveal the need for a large building programme. It will comprise new building as well as renovation and repair. There is room for improvement in the standard of craftsmanship in all trades concerned with building in Malaya. It would appear, therefore, provided Government and the municipalities insisted that when available, a certain proportion of trained labour should be used in all contracts together with a 'fair wages' clause, that a school or schools for building trades would fulfil a need. The curriculum of these schools should be based upon 'group trades', i.e., brickwork and masonry, reinforced concrete (pre-cast and in situ), tiling, terrazzo and composition flooring etc., or again, carpentry and joinery, staircasing, parquet flooring, preparation of 'forms' and 'moulds' for brick and concrete work. Other groups should consist of (a) electrical trades including air-conditioning plant, (b) plumbing with sanitation. To give proper practical experience to students in training, opportunity should be given to the school to carry out small building projects in the neighbourhood of the school. This would provide convincing demonstration of the practical nature of the course, as well as advertising the school.

72. TECHNICAL SCHOOLS TO TRAIN FOR A NUMBER OF TRADES. Other existing trades to be catered for either by technical schools or technifactories, are (a) leather trades, (b) tailoring, (c) commercial, (d) 'cookboys' and 'cook amals'. In the latter school training would be given in the preparation and cooking of European and Asian dishes to modern standards of dietary and cleanliness. It would train in house service and maintenance, and also English. It is felt that a properly trained cookboy or amah whose previous experience and training would be authenticated by the school register of employment, and whose abilities would be vouched for by the school, would provide a reliable service and one that would be greatly appreciated.

73. LOCAL TRADE POSSIBILITIES, THE NEED FOR RESEARCH. So far consideration has been given only to existing trades or occupations but, if the contribution which education is to make to national well-being is to affect more than a tithe of the population then the desirability of fostering new trades and occupations must be considered. These fall into two categories: (1) occupations resulting from development and use of materials which in the past have not been exploited or have been considered waste products; (2) trades or occupations which modern conditions have brought into being and which local needs demand should be used. A useful example which may be cited under (1) arises from the demand by the plastics and rubber industries for a 'filler' with a longer and stronger staple than cotton and a stronger but finer staple than hemp. The possibilities of pineapple leaf fibre (a waste product) were investigated in 1941. Reference to research by the Department of Agriculture showed that the leaves of the pineapple plant could be cropped prior to fruiting without detriment to the fruit; from this it was apparent that the pineapple canning industry had on hand a large quantity of waste produce readily available for this purpose. Experiments conducted by the Department of Agriculture in the extraction of fibre by a method similar to that accorded to hemp or jute showed that the project had possibilities but without careful organisation could not be a commercial proposition. Close study of the methods used by the Department of Agriculture and of the percentage of loss resulting from the use of these methods suggested that a more profitable field would be the treatment similar to that for flax. After numerous trials as to the duration of 'retting' time, it was found that a relatively simple and inexpensive method of 'retting' produced an excellent strong clean fibre more than four times the length of cotton and of considerably greater strength (tensile). More than is an occupation - either spare or whole time - which may usefully be developed to supplement the income of rural workers. Again, Malaya produces a swamp timber which has been found to equal or excel the best hickory, thereby providing a useful alternative to this timber for golf club shafts, hammer handles etc. Under (2) consideration should be given to plastics - both thermo-setting and thermo-plastic - a modern industry with vast possibilities and as yet only in its infancy. There can be no doubt, that

===== Page 29 =====
With the discovery and development of new plastics and new methods of fabrication, the use of plastics will grow and become invaluable in spheres at present unexplored. Plastics have a special value in the tropics, as the high degree of compression to which they are subjected produces a surface impervious to white ants and similar pests. This industry is particularly suitable to Malaya, requiring only a nucleus of skilled labor in the machine shop for the fabrication of molds and press setting, yet also offering employment to a fair number of semi-skilled or unskilled workers for repetitive work.

74. TRADES NOT PREVIOUSLY FOUND IN MALAYA. Again - the fabrication of glassware, i.e., glass containers such as bottles in common use as well as quality glassware such as was developed in Czecho-Slovakia after the last war. The appointment of one skilled glassworker to organize and develop this project as a community trade would be sufficient to ensure training of enough local personnel to establish a thriving industry. To this might be added pottery, i.e., the fabrication of earthenware and china clay utensils to meet local needs and save importation from other countries.

75. THE WIDTH OF THE FIELD TO BE EXPLORED. These are but a few illustrations of projects which properly exploited may add to the economic strength of Malaya. Education's policy and aim must be a steadily progressive increase in skill and craftsmanship in all trades and undertakings, for the soundest method of raising the standard of living, of culture, and environment lies through increased skill and application. No greater or better opportunity than that given by the var will ever be afforded to Malaya. It therefore behoves us to seize this opportunity and to develop it with every means in our power.

76. DEVELOPMENT OF CRAFTS. An extensive tour of Malaya in 1940 provided opportunity for close examination of Malayan crafts, together with contact with those who had intimate knowledge of the condition of crafts peculiar to certain States or districts. In addition, advantage was taken of knowledge based upon study of European prominent crafts and Indian Village industries, which, together with long experience of arts and crafts in schools in England, was felt to provide sufficient background for a considered Report on Malayan Crafts. In this Report of Memorandum the view was expressed that crafts whose existence depended upon chance tourist traffic and the enthusiasm of a few Government officers could not be considered to have much more than academic value. For the cultural value of a craft dies as the craft dies, while the economic value becomes steady loss. Crafts are the spirit of a country expressed in terms of material. In crafts can be seen the inborn love of color, rhythm, and order; the striving for individuality and the desire to create something giving satisfaction to the individual and others, greater than that given by pure utility. It signifies the cultural virility of a race moving towards higher civilization. Great though this cultural value may be, it is to a large extent 'unconscious expression' and in consequence may be lost when competition in the shape of machine-made goods is met; for then the economic factor becomes paramount. It would, in fact, be unreasonable to expect people living on the verge of want to feel any obligation to maintain a craft merely for its cultural value. Since reason must be the basis of any successful attempt to revitalize Malayan crafts, the approach must lie through economics. For if the economic and cultural factors can be reconciled then crafts may yet form a valuable contribution to the life of the people of Malaya.

77. THE DIFFICULTIES TO BE FACED. Examination of the many illusions to which Malayan crafts have fallen hair shows that the greatest factors which militate against success are (1) under-capitalization, (2) lack of organized marketing facilities. The hand-loom silk weavings of Trengganu and Kelantan illustrate this very clearly. It is estimated that there are at least five thousand looms in these

===== Page 30 =====
Two States, but many are only used occasionally and very few to capacity. This is due to local conditions; for instance the many Malays making a living (a poor one) from the sea are confined during the monsoon season to the shore. The women undertake weaving as a spare-time activity to supplement the men's meagre income. The family income is in most cases too small to permit purchase of the silk yarn, so that material is farmed out to them by middlemen who pay but a pittance for the labour. The amount of work given and the amount paid rests entirely with the middleman. The alternative is for the weaver to purchase the yarn, but the family income is too small to permit purchase of more than enough yarn for one strong length at a time, and no more can be afforded until this strong length has been sold. With only spasmodic sales, it may be a month or two before a strong length is sold, and until it finds a purchaser, the maker waits for payment. This is a hand-to-mouth existence which cannot help but create stagnation. Again, purchase of small quantities of yarn means increased cost, which in turn leads to attempts to cut costs in other directions, namely by using cheaper dyes. A dye which will not stand creates dissatisfaction and a falling off in demand. The local Arts & Crafts Societies have done much to check this falling off in the standard of finish, but their very limited capital makes the check limited in scope. Again too, substantial orders placed by British and American firms at the Glasgow Exhibition for Malayan weaving were never fulfilled because there was no suitable organisation to arrange the manufacture of the goods and to guarantee them as being up to sample.

78. THE LOCAL MARKET IS GOOD. The local market is good (about 500,000 yards per year) but much of the benefit remains with the middleman, and is not as good as it might be if properly organised throughout the length and breadth of Malaya. To this should be added the pointer provided by the interest displayed by British and American firms, for examination of the problem suggests that there is no reason why textiles strongly Malayan in spirit should not by slight variation be acceptable to European taste.

79. SOLUTION OF PRE-WAR PROBLEMS. The disadvantages to be faced and overcome in order to revitalize crafts may be summarised as follows: (a) elimination of the middleman to give better return to the weaver, (b) purchase of yarn, (c) lack of organised direction, (d) under capitalisation, (e) variation in quality, (f) limited market, (g) lack of organised marketing. All these things are related, consequently the solution if it is to be a proper one must meet all these difficulties adequately, and so ensure all benefit going to those in whom the crafts must live. It would be no solution if crafts were falsely stimulated by concentration of the work in the hands of a few. It is essential that the work should remain the spare time activity of as large a number as possible, and the amount accepted from each individual or family so limited that there is no tendency to neglect household duties, fishing or agricultural pursuits, for the normal activities of the people must on no account be diverted. In other words, it is better that some thousands should benefit to the extent of say, a ten per cent increase in monthly income, than a few hundred should be taken from normal work and engaged full time in weaving. The project was, therefore, based upon that of the present industries of Czecho-Slovakia, such as lace making, which through systematic organisation of the spare time of rural workers created a worldwide market.

80. A CRAFT RESEARCH ORGANISATION. The creation of an organisation to be known as Malayan Craft Developments was proposed, the headquarters being a building centrally situated, say at Kuala Lumpur, to be known as the Craft Research Institute. Here, all Malayan crafts would be organised and directed. Malayan Craft Developments would, for example, purchase silk yarn in bulk from China. The amount of silk bought pre-war in old kraties actually amounted to about $12,000 per annum, consequently if weaving was stimulated the saving through direct purchase from China would be considerable. It was proposed that a small percentage should be added to the basic cost to cover distribution of the yarn.

===== Page 31 =====
To weavers. Bulk dyeing with fast dyes would also be undertaken at headquarters, again reducing cost, for the quantity of dye used would be based upon the estimated amount of yarn in any particular colour likely to be required over a period of, say, six months.

81. THE SCOPE OF A RESEARCH INSTITUTE. The number of sarong lengths of the same design required to fulfil certain orders being known, and the number of skeins of silk in each colour having been computed, sufficient dyed yarn to produce the number of sarong lengths required would be sent to the locality or State district craft officer for distribution by the local craft organiser to the weavers. This craft organiser, having been trained at the Research Institute, would act as distributor of materials, demonstrator of work, and collector of finished goods. This organiser would issue a certificate to the weaver stating that work to the required standard had been received and payment authorised. The organiser would then dispatch the work collected to the Craft Research Institute, where it would again be subjected to examination and the seal of guarantee attached. The Institute would also be responsible for packing, despatch and distribution to approved centres or agents in Malaya, Britain and America.

82. A LOAN AS INITIAL CAPITAL. It is obvious that there must be an appreciable time lag between the purchase of silk yarn in China and the sale of finished goods in America, Britain or Malaya. The weaver must be paid as soon as the weaving is completed, inspected and accepted. It was proposed, therefore, that Government should be asked for a float or loan to cover conditions of time lag, and it was estimated that a sum of approximately $5,000 rising to $50,000 when the scheme was in full operation would be required. It should be noted that this sum would not be a subsidy, as it would be covered by the stock of raw material or finished goods. As profits and turnover increased, the float would be repaid or reduced until the time came when the concern was fully capable of financing itself.

83. REMUNERATION OF THE WORKER. It was considered that remuneration for work done, should be computed on the number of hours per month which might legitimately be spent in weaving without detriment to other occupations, and from this a rate per hour was agreed which would yield a ten to fifteen per cent increase in monthly income. This restriction of individual output was specifically designed to ensure work was not hurried or scamped, or other tasks neglected in order to make more money. Further, it was considered that ten to fifteen per cent would make the degree of difference between want and sufficiency without upsetting the economic life of the community.

84. THE MARKET CAN BE IMPROVED. With a working labour basis and an assessment of basic costs, the next problem is a suitable market to most expand production. Greater reliability in dye and finish will cause an upswing in local demand, and if this is joined with a careful survey of local taste or prejudice, i.e., the full market potentialities of every town and village in Malaya, then weaving will enjoy a new life.

85. OVERSEAS MARKETING. Along with this test of the local market, the potentialities of an American and British market should be explored. Sample "weaves" must be produced, and scheduled so that exact duplication can be made when orders eventuate. To this must be added willingness to accept suggestions from American and British agents, for there must be no "take it or leave it" attitude displayed. Neither should Malayan Craft Developments be satisfied with the production of only sarong lengths. It may be that completed garments, e.g., house coats in handwoven silk, would provide economy if cut and made up locally.

86. THE CULTURAL ASPECT OF CRAFTS. Malayan Craft Developments is projected as more than a buying and selling agency, for while the economic factor is important, it must not be forgotten that the basic object is to make crafts really live and be a factor in developing Malayan character and spirit. This organisation must set

===== Page 32 =====
A standard of craftsmanship and finish must guarantee quality; it must initiate new designs. Good design, displaying Malayan characteristics yet with a feeling for the qualities which appeal to European or American taste, requires craft scholarship. It requires designers with good modern art training, a flair for assessing public taste, together with an intimate knowledge of the craft from a Malayan standpoint.

87. RESEARCH WORKERS AS DESIGNERS. The evolution of the design is but the first step; it has then to be costed in terms of labour and material. Next comes distribution of material to the weavers and instruction by demonstration if the design is a new one. The system of control, distribution, teaching, and payment is based upon that of the Czech and Indian village industries. Hence the research workers at the Institute will also be the designers. They will train the visiting teachers or district organisers. Production costs will be based upon trial weaves made by the visiting teachers during their training at the Institute. They would then be in a position to demonstrate and display what is required.

88. THE INSTITUTE TO BE MALAYAN-WIDE. Weaving is, however, localised, and a parochial attitude is to be deprecated. Interest must be taken not only in one craft but in all crafts; in crafts nearly extinct and in new crafts provided they are Malayan in spirit. Malayan Craft Developments must energise and enthuse, and display a readiness to experiment and initiate. The possibility of combining crafts must not be overlooked, and the work of creative designers in other countries may provide a lead in this. The work of Rodier in France in combining weaving with block printing suggests interesting possibilities. Block and batik printing are traditional Eastern crafts, while the exquisite embroidery of the Chinese should not be ignored. A combination of those crafts has interesting possibilities. If, for example, cloth is woven in Trenggam or Kekantan, it might be block or screen printed in Kedah, and finally become an original production by the embroidery of a raised motif in Negri-Sembilan. This example is given as an illustration of the inter-relation of crafts and the way such work may be spread and so benefit a large number of people. It should not be forgotten that public demand for certain things is insatiable, and that one of those things is "woman's dress".

89. THE CRAFTS TO BE DEVELOPED. The crafts comprehended in this scheme are: handloom weaving, handloom weaving in conjunction with block and screen printing, batik, embroidery, pandanus mats and other lines in this material, Port Dickson hats, silverwork, basketry, woodwork, toymaking. Pottery and glassware would be interesting additions. It is clearly recognised that equal success is not to be expected from all those crafts. Some may fail altogether, others be relatively slow in coming into public favour. This factor must be faced by successful crafts helping to carry those in the course of development. The preparation of suitable sales literature, of attractive packaging, also falls within the scope of the Institute.

90. THE PART OF THE SCHOOLS IN CRAFT DEVELOPMENT. So far the approach to the community is through the teachers or craft organisers trained at the Research Institute; to this must be added the approach through the schools. It is proposed that craft teachers for vernacular senior schools should be trained at the Technical College, Kuala Lumpur, and that the Craft Research Institute should also be within the confines of the College. Part of the training of these craft school teachers would be carried out in the Research Institute, while the staff would also be members of the staff of the school or department of Arts & Crafts. This concentration of training — i.e. of craft organisers and craft school teachers — makes the double approach to the community which is an essential feature of the scheme. Craft organisers as envisaged above are a necessary feature of the preliminary years. It is the intention that, as craft vernacular senior school teachers become more numerous, all training be done through them. Having received a sound craft training in school the child will be equipped to enter the spare-time occupation of adults, and with this upward movement of craft knowledge the need for organisers will be past.

===== Page 33 =====
91. THE SUPPORT GIVEN TO THIS PROJECT.

This project was fully discussed with a number of Europeans who had been identified with past efforts to revitalize crafts and/or had been the energizing force in local Arts & Crafts Societies. They were unanimous in their approval of this project and in the view that it provided the only practical solution to the problem. The scheme, however, was not approved, the view being that the time was not opportunistic. But post-war conditions will make a most opportune time for this development and will provide just such a scheme as was envisaged when Colonies were invited before the war had reached Malaya to make application for the special grants from Imperial funds.

91a. In formulating this craft development scheme every endeavour has been made to keep the issues as simple as possible, stressing the need to walk before attempting to run. Since it is based on the assumption of future growth it is desirable that certain possibilities should be considered. Two possibilities are mentioned here:
(a) That the 'Craft Development' scheme may easily develop into a very large organisation—even outshadowing the Technical College itself;
(b) That post-war developments will include a Bureau of Economic and Cultural Affairs (such as that in the Netherlands East Indies) and that Craft developments would then fall within the purview of the Bureau.

The essence of organisation as proposed in this memorandum lies in the fact that it is based upon the same principles which have governed the development of Great Britain's Colonial Empire, namely, that as each or any portion or part develops to a stage where self-government would give greater efficiency, then that portion or part will be separated or detached (e.g., independent status of dominions), yet certain links of association or mutual interest are retained. Crafts are a part of the life of the country; consequently whatever degree of development which may take place, a part of such development must always be related to the training of teachers.

The questions which arise from this are: (i) How far would preliminary organisation of crafts at the Technical College interfere with later and larger development? (ii) Would the building—i.e., the Craft Research Institute—be redundant?

Under (i), it is considered that since a period of time must elapse before a Bureau of Economic Affairs can be organised and investigation of native crafts brought to a stage where a big scheme may be launched, there are definite advantages, not only to the rural part-time craft workers on the economic side but to the youth of the country, in organising the scheme as outlined in the memorandum. The more that is done immediately, even on a small scale, the less loss there will need to be done later, while a small but efficient craft organisation may be considered a definite asset if and when taken over by the Bureau of Economic Affairs. Long discussion with those who have been closely connected with the N.H.I. Bureau of Economic Affairs shows that much valuable work has been done and that such a Bureau would be of great value to Malaya even though basic economic conditions in the two countries vary considerably. Should such a Bureau come into being it is quite possible that not only crafts, but the Department of Education itself would come within its purview. However, a large organisation such as this will take years to develop to full efficiency and must, by its nature and scope, be departmentalised and consequently there is no inherent objection to one of its departments being developed before the main organisation.

Under (ii), whatever developments may take place, and assuming the main organisation is situated elsewhere, there is still much to be done in research into the teaching and presentation of craft studies. Further, it will probably be necessary to increase the number of craft teachers in training, in which case the Craft Institute will provide the accommodation. Failing this use for the building, there remains research or exploration into the development of adult leisure activities, such as hobbies, in which case the Institute may become the Institute for Adult Education.

92. THE TECHNICAL COLLEGE.

The importance of re-starting the Technical College at the earliest possible moment after the war is concluded is conditioned by the contribution it can make to national well-being. The war severely dislocated

===== Page 34 =====
All technical services, consequently while they are being reorganised a temporary cessation in the demand for technical subordinates may be expected. The devastation of war will soon offset this, for once the machinery of technical organisation has been set in motion, the destruction of war together with normal development will cause a shortage of trained subordinates.

93. AN EARLY START IS NECESSARY. An efficient technical subordinate cannot be produced in a few months but requires three or four years. It is necessary to recognise this fact when the question of reopening the Technical College is under consideration, for the production of good technical officers is a vital factor in national well-being. Being based upon national considerations, this may be considered as the broad view. To this should be added the value to the country of an institution providing specialist higher education for a locally born people, and the implementing of the policy to provide opportunity for Asiatics to take an increasing part in the higher branches of Government technical services.

94. THE FUTURE MUST BE CONSIDERED. Haste to restart need not and should not be allowed to obscure the main purpose of the Technical College, which is not the supply of technical personnel only for the period of reconstruction, but to feed the services in the years to come. Therefore, the College should be so constituted, even from a hurried start, that certain basic principles will allow smooth development and progress to the ultimate goal. To start, with full knowledge of the road to be travelled means the elimination of waste at a later date, and gives clear understanding of the means by which the goal may be obtained.

95. THE VIEW OF THE MCCLEAN COMMISSION. The McClean Commission expressed the view that Raffles College, the College of Medicine, and the Technical College were not yet ready to be constituted a university college, but might be expected to achieve this status in a few years' time. This view in so far as it affects the Technical College may be accepted as reasonable. It is possible to go further than this and state that the needs of the country at this time would best be served by producing, say 200 graduates per year to a satisfactory standard rather than twenty to honours degree standard. The goal then is status as a university college in, say, ten years. To achieve this it is essential that the administration and control of each of the Colleges should be similar in character and that the Colleges should be of equal standing. The constitution of Raffles College as a grant-in-aid college provides for a measure of independence and freedom from Government control similar to that enjoyed by institutions in England. The College of Medicine and the Technical College are financed and controlled by Government.

96. THE IMMEDIATE POST-WAR YEARS FAVOURABLE FOR PROPER CONSTITUTION. Since the common future of the three Colleges is agreed upon, there are sound administrative and financial reasons for establishing the Technical College upon the same basis as Raffles College, and the logical and most convenient time to do this would be when the College is restarted.

97. THIS MEANS BASIC CHANGES. This alteration would render necessary certain basic changes and in order that the reasons for those may be readily understood a brief history of the organisation of the Technical College is given.

98. The Technical College has grown out of classes started by the Public Works Department. Under the Public Works Department, these classes had a chequered career, closing down on occasions (because no member of the Public Works Department wished to be sidetracked from promotion through acting as Principal) only to reopen when the need for more trained technical subordinates became pressing. When other technical departments experienced the need for trained personnel, economy indicated the desirability of gathering them under one roof. This was done and the Technical School was established at Kuala Lumpur, the building used (as a temporary measure) being the old discarded premises of the [POSSIBLY MISSING].

===== Page 35 =====
Victoria Institution. This was in 1924 and the same buildings are still in use, though by 1936 the annual enrolment was about sixty and the total roll one hundred and eighty (three-year course).

99. THE REPORT OF THE BRIDGES COMMITTEE. The 'Bridges' Committee issued a report upon the Technical School in 1939. It expressed the view that numbers would eventually reach 230 and that a site should be obtained which would accommodate buildings for this number. Little consideration was given to the question of private students, only seven being upon the books, though it was agreed that private students were desirable subject to the needs of government departments being met first.

100. THE VIEW OF THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE. In 1940, the view was expressed after visiting the school and perusing relevant files, that private industry together with Government departments could absorb at least 150 students per year (450 total roll). This view was regarded by the Advisory Committee as a gross over-estimate that could not be supported by informed opinion. In 1941 the School became a Federal Institution and the name changed to College. The total roll was 220, with about twenty private students chosen from well over one hundred satisfactory applications. Previous to this date, all private students became government apprentices through wastage, but in this year eight obtained lucrative posts in private industry; other posts being available but were unfilled since no students were available. A circular letter was addressed to each Government department asking for a statement of minimum yearly requirements for the next ten years. Replies showed that from 150-160 would be required each year excluding the needs of private industry.

101. STUDENT NUMBERS AFFECT PROVISION. The Advisory Committee of the Technical College recommended the acquisition of a site to accommodate a building for 200. Government accepted this recommendation and acquired a site which will be inadequate if provision is to be made for the numbers now known to be required. It is fortunate that additional suitable land adjoins this site and can be acquired if not left too long.

102. THE DURATION OF THE COURSE. The next factor which affects the total enrolment of the College is the duration of the Course. Before the question of making the Technical College parallel in organisation and status with Raffles College was mooted, there was strong opinion in favour of introducing a preliminary year to ensure a sound knowledge of English, Mathematics and Science. This preliminary year would also provide opportunity for students to make a better decision as to the branch of engineering for which they had the greatest aptitude. The opinion is firmly held that if this preliminary year is introduced there will be no difficulty in bringing the Courses to degree standard and of ensuring a higher standard of general education.

103. THE NEEDS OF PRIVATE INDUSTRY. Private industry can absorb anything up to fifty students per year, which with a four-year course and Government requirements of 150 per year would give a total enrolment of 800, though waste during the course would slightly reduce this total.

104. THE SELECTION OF STUDENTS. Unlike Raffles College, the Technical College has no voice in the selection of any but private students. Students going into Government employment are chosen by the technical departments after an interview. An indication of the minimum educational standard required has been given to departments, but until recently lower standards were also accepted. A system that premises employment irrespective of results is a discouragement to ambition and diligence, while the method of selection may lead to nepotism and to the evasion by Departments of responsibility for the non-employment of Malays in States where a pro-Malay policy is in force, e.g. because of insufficient care in selection, Malays of only average ability are chosen and sent to the Technical College; one term is sufficient to show they cannot obtain the standard required and they are thereupon dismissed by the Department. The College is then asked to recommend a private student (they are always Chinese, Indian or Eurasian) to take over the apprenticeship.

===== Page 36 =====
105. SELECTION BY GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS. Apprenticeship means free studentship to the Technical College together with a maintenance grant of from $30 to $50 per month, and, subject to obtaining pass marks in the final examination, certain employment in Government service. A job for life therefore depends upon influence, recommendation, or luck which attends selection for interview, a pleasant personality, and fair ability. Scholarship to Raffles College depends largely upon position in the Schools Certificate pass list, the award resting with Raffles College. In the early years of Raffles College practically every place was filled by a scholarship holder (this was necessary to offset the superior monetary rewards offered by industry) but in recent years scholarships have been reduced to one third, with no promise of employment afterwards. Yet applications for admission to Raffles College far exceed the maximum enrolment. It might be assumed that since the Technical College offers about 90% scholarships it would form first choice, but the reverse is the case, for it has been ascertained that practically every student applying for admission to the Technical College was, in the first place, rejected by Raffles College and for that reason decided upon a technical profession. This is due, partly to the fact that the Technical College lacks the buildings, equipment, and staff necessary for efficiency and good standing, and because, as in England, the rewards in the technical profession tend to be lower. The 'Spens' Report stressed the need for technical education in order to divert the stream flowing towards 'white collar' jobs, and this applies equally to Malay. Moreover, as the Technical College is a government institution paying for 90% of the students, the student has no need to do so, since his chances of entry as a fee-paying student are only one in ten.

106. THE EFFECT OF INDEPENDENCE. If the Technical College instead of being a Government institution, became a grant-in-aid institution like Raffles College then the scholarship scheme should be as follows. Government requires 150 graduates per year and industry can absorb 50 students per year. Instead of 150 departmental scholarships as under the old scheme, one hundred one-year College (Government) scholarships, with twenty-five one-year College Malay scholarships (for Federated States) would be given, while seventy-five places would be reserved for fee-paying students. Upon the position in the examination pass list at the end of the year (irrespective of status as fee-paying or scholarship) students would be offered three-year scholarships, to a total of eighty scholarships in all, in Civil, Mechanical, Electrical, or Mining Engineering, Surveying, Posts & Telegraphs etc., according to the number of graduates required in each branch. These would be full scholarships i.e. providing tuition and maintenance at College. To this should be added twenty exhibitions providing tuition only, and ten exhibitions offering, say, three-quarter remission of fees. Any one-year scholarship holder could, providing he satisfied the minimum examination requirement, continue as a fee-paying student if he failed to obtain a scholarship or exhibition. A sum of money should also be available to provide completion of training for any promising students whose changed home circumstances might involve unexpected termination of their course if financial aid proved unobtainable. The arrangements for three-year Malay U.M.S. scholarships would be as for the first year, except that the U.M.S. would also be advised to withdraw scholarships from those who failed to reach in the first year the standard required of other scholarship holders and would in any event be required to withdraw from the College any students with scholarships who failed to reach the minimum standard demanded.

107. THE COLLEGE CAN ASSIST SELECTION. Upon graduation a list showing relative merit in the final examination in each branch of study would be circulated to Departments so that selection could be made according to merit. This would meet the objection of departments that this scheme would not give them the freedom of choice enjoyed under the old.

===== Page 37 =====
108. THE FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS. This paragraph gives details of the financial advantage to Government of the new scheme over the old. Under the old scheme private students paid $60 per annum towards the cost of tuition; the total cost per head per annum being computed at $550. A maintenance grant of from $30 - $50 per month was received by each Government apprentice. If we ignore the U.M.S. students since the cost of their training and maintenance is borne by the State concerned, then the cost to Government under the old scheme would be:

For 1st Year:
125 apprentices at $550 per annum $69,750
125 apprentices at $600 per annum (maintenance) $75,000
50 private students at $490 per annum $24,500

$169,250

Under the new scheme it is recommended that the contribution by Government to the cost of private students should be brought into line with that in England, namely half the cost. The cost to Government under the new scheme would therefore be:

For 1st Year:
100 scholarships at $550 per annum $55,000
100 maintenance grants at $600 per annum $60,000
75 private students at $275 per annum $20,000

$135,000

Saving to Government on 1st Year $34,250

For the three year course the cost to Government under the old scheme would be: $169,250 x 3 = $507,750

Under the new scheme the cost would be:

80 scholarships x 550 x 3 (Tuition) $132,000
80 scholarships x 600 x 3 (Maintenance) $144,000
20 scholarships x 500 x 3 (Tuition) $30,000
10 scholarships x 412 x 3 (1.5 Tuition) $12,360
65 fee paying x 275 x 3 (0.5 Tuition) $53,625

$371,985

Saving to Government on 3 year course $135,765
Total saving on four year Course $170,015

109. INDEPENDENCE WILL ENCOURAGE BENEFACIONS. We next have to consider other advantages which would accrue under the new scheme. Whereas the general public cannot, since they have no stake in it, be expected to give support to a Government institution it would not be the case if the College is an independent aided institution. Under latter conditions support may be expected both from industrial concerns and from the general public. Malaya can show many examples of generous benefactions to education, particularly by the Chinese and though the years immediately after the war will not be favourable for benefactions on the scale which might be expected during normal times, yet there will be a nucleus and as conditions improve so support by the public and industry may be expected to grow.

110. A PROJECT TO INTEREST THE COMMUNITY. There should be a systematic attempt to develop and maintain the interest of the whole community in the project. There are ample examples of generous aid given to Mission or Aided schools as well as to Private schools, but this cannot be compared with a project which should interest the whole community. It will interest them, if it is sufficiently known that the facilities of the College are open to every youth, irrespective of race or creed, who merits a place. It will interest them, if it can be seen that the College genuinely appreciates their interest whatever form it may take. It will be of still greater interest if it is known that they are participants in the founding of the future University College of Malaya. Strong support too may be confidently expected if projects on the extra-mural side (described later in this memorandum) provide opportunity for exploiting a variety of interests.

===== Page 38 =====
111. A VIGOROUS CAMPAIGN IS NEEDED. It will not be supported unless it provides something which the community needs, or if the approach to the public is half-hearted, diffident, or apologetic. It requires a vigorous campaign by press and radio and through a personal approach. It requires stimulation of the competitive element, so that State vies with State, race with race, and community with community. It should provide such variety that the tastes and inclinations of all are met. Thus, it should interest those who desire to perpetuate their name, or memory of one who has not survived the war; those desirous of making a thank-offering for the return of peace. Others again will be motivated by humanitarian instincts or the love of young children. Finally, it must be shown that the ‘Widow's mite’ is appreciated as fully as the cascade of Croesus. In one way this project may be likened to the sale of an article. The difference lies in that it is an idea rather than an article which is to be put upon the public market, but in other respects such as inviting public participation in the making of shares in this project so that their children may draw the dividends, or putting before them something they need, it resembles a sales project. Therefore, the approach must be psychological, the sales literature stimulating imagination and interest. Appealing to the best qualities in human nature, it should also touch the lesser qualities. Thus, if a point is made that the name of all benefactors will be published each year in the College Calendar, then desire for self-glorification is transmitted since this lesser quality is more than offset by the benefit to the community.

112. THE INITIAL COST WILL BE LATER OFFSET. Therefore, while the initial cost of the buildings will have to be met or guaranteed by Government, there is every reason to expect reimbursement through benefactions in the years which follow, largely because the College will have ceased to be a Government institution.

113. AN INDEPENDENT INSTITUTION CAN INVITE INTEREST. Further, a Government institution cannot invite and is unlikely to receive from industry gifts of equipment or apparatus, or at reduced cost as is given usually with purchases for educational purposes. Conspicuous gifts of apparatus such as have been made by industrial concerns to Technical Colleges in England might well be expected in Malaya, provided the approach to this is made in the right way. The right approach is not the exposition of unlimited philanthropy, but mutual benefit. The College needs first class modern equipment so that instruction may be up to date and of the highest order, but unless some concession is made, it may not be in a position to meet the cost of the best equipment. The loss sustained by a firm granting concessions may, however, be offset by the advertisement which the apparatus provides, for display of apparatus at work is far more convincing than any sales literature or idle apparatus in a showroom. In this matter, the College should be proud of its possession of the best apparatus of its kind and not be adverse to making known to the public the equipment which has been installed, and should also invite inspection by anyone interested. This advertisement is beneficial to the supplier of apparatus, and also to the College since in bringing people to see the apparatus, it stimulates interest generally in the College.

114. THE COST OF PLANT & EQUIPMENT NEED NOT BE A CAPITAL CHARGE. Another direction in which the new organisation would benefit is the development of a scheme whereby the cost of plant and apparatus instead of being a capital charge may be spread over a period of years, i.e., the period representing the useful life of a piece of machinery or apparatus. This scheme was first mooted in Malaya in connection with replacement of machine plant in the Trade schools. The problem was not in the first instance based upon expense but upon efficiency, but when worked out in detail showed very obvious financial advantages. Under normal conditions a Trade School is fully equipped upon opening, and students fortunate enough to be in the age groups coinciding with the first years of the school's existence, have the advantage of training upon machines which are accurate and up to date. Then in each succeeding year the machines become progressively more inaccurate and out of date, until by the fourteenth year all the machines are in a similar state of decrepitude and the whole plant has to be renewed at large capital cost. Apart

===== Page 39 =====
From the financial aspect, it is manifestly unfortunate that because a student happens to be in attendance during the last four years of the fourteen-year life of the machines, he should be trained upon inaccurate plant.

115 A HIRE PURCHASE SCHEME. The scheme propounded provided for the replacement of machines, not when worn out, but at any time thought fit or when superseded by a later model. The proposal put to and accepted by Government as being sound in principle, was that arrangements should be made with machine tool manufacturers to supply machines upon a hire purchase basis, e.g., a machine costing 3 100 would be paid for at the rate of, say, 3 10 per year for ten years. If at any time during this period an improved model is introduced, it would be supplied to the school and a new hire purchase agreement commenced. The machine tool suppliers would be responsible for the disposal of the old machine, but since there is a good market in Malaya in second-hand tools, no loss would be incurred by the manufacturer. The Department of Education in the case of the Trade Schools, or the College would not lose since the yearly payment would be a fair charge for use, while students would gain by having the use of the latest type of machine and at the peak of its efficiency.

116 THE ADVANTAGE TO THE MANUFACTURER. The advantage to the manufacturer, to offset outlay of capital for ten years would be (a) the cost would be charged to advertising, i.e., demonstration models and would not therefore figure as a sale, and not yielding profit would not be subject to taxation, (b) the manufacturer would have in effect a demonstration working model showing the potentialities of the machine under normal working conditions, potential customers seeing the machine in use, (c) students trained upon these machines would be fully conversant with them and therefore more efficient operators when they go into industry.

117 THE ADVANTAGE TO THE SCHOOLS OR THE COLLEGE. Potential purchasers of machine tools are also potential employers of trainees, and freedom to see the machines in operation would not [POSSIBLY MISSING: as an introduction to the Trade School, thereby increasing interest in the school and its trainees and the confidence of the employer both in machine and labour]. This scheme was put to a large concern manufacturing machine tools, who indicated willingness to co-operate after the war. Another factor of this scheme beneficial to education is that in the event of a slump occurring at the end of the useful life of a machine, which might perhaps delay replacement for as many years as the slump lasts, there is only normal rent to pay.

118 THE ADVANTAGE TO THE TECHNICAL COLLEGE. Similar advantages should accrue to the Technical College, if the scheme is introduced from the beginning. A properly equipped College (and partial equipment is poor economy) is bound to involve large capital expenditure unless some such scheme as that outlined above is introduced. Then, with a return to normal conditions, public benefactions may be expected to flow, and would meet many of the later hire payments.

119 SURPLUS WAR STOCKS. Again, it should not be overlooked, that with the cessation of war, a large surplus of machine plant will be available. To use some of this for instruction is truer economy than placing it upon the scrap heap.

120 THE FULLEST USE SHOULD BE MADE OF EQUIPMENT. Specialised technical education is relatively higher in cost, since certain apparatus is essential at various stages of training and cannot be done without, even though it may only be required for an hour or two per week. The principle that idle plant is frozen capital applies as much to education as it does to industry. Consequently, it is sound policy to organise upon lines which will ensure the fullest use of all apparatus. This is one reason (others are given in the section of this memorandum dealing with the training of teachers) for advocating a department within the College for the training of teachers in Arts & Crafts; as is the case at Loughborough College, England. The introduction of this department not only widens the outlook of both engineering students and teachers in training but enables joint use of

===== Page 40 =====
Workshops and equipment and staff, whereas separate institutions entail duplication. Evening classes for part-time students also extend the service which the College should offer to the community, again making use of buildings and equipment. This is true economy of money and personnel.

121 A STRONG CASE. The case, then, for a properly constituted and efficient Technical College is strong. That such an institution is not already in being does not promise any lack of strength of the case, but lack of proper advocacy. Failure to present the case adequately may be ascribed to divided interests. The Department of Education, lacking until recently an officer with the requisite experience and qualification, was chary of displaying initiative. On the other hand, Government technical departments, each preoccupied with its own affairs, did not go beyond satisfying themselves that their technical apprentices were receiving training as satisfactory as could be expected under existing conditions.

122 FULL BENEFITS OF A MODERN TECHNICAL EDUCATION COUPLED WITH A KNOWLEDGE OF MALAYA. It is admittedly difficult for those without first-hand knowledge of the country, and conversely, for those with knowledge of the country but no knowledge of modern technical education, to form a fair estimate of the needs of a Technical College, or of what the country needs from such a college. The following facts are therefore given to assist appreciation of the picture in the past and also to indicate the picture which should be painted in the future.

123 PRE-WAR PROVISION OF HIGHER EDUCATION WAS LIMITED. The area of Malaya is greater than England and Wales. It has a population of 5½ million with a rising birthrate. The only institutions providing education of higher standard than that of the average secondary schools in England are Raffles College, the College of Medicine, the Technical College and (in part) the School of Agriculture. Since, as its name implies, the College of Medicine trains only for the Medical services, it devolves upon Raffles College to meet the needs of the Civil Service, the Legal and Teaching professions and for industry upon the administrative side. It caters for the Arts but not for a technical course. All branches of engineering are the province of the Technical College, which requires to provide for Civil, Mechanical, Electrical and Mining engineering, for Surveying and for Telecommunications.

124 THE NEED FOR A COLLEGE HAS LONG BEEN RECOGNIZED. Sixteen years ago the need for a suitable building, properly equipped, was recognized. The years have gone by and the Technical College remains in a building abandoned as unsuitable for a secondary school in 1926. For six years it has remained an obstacle to the completion of a new road scheduled under town improvements. It presents a picture of a building straddling and rendering unserviceable a broad highway which terminates abruptly on either side of the building.

125 THE HOSTEL IS INADEQUATE. The building of the College itself is not the only doubtful asset. The hostel, formerly the Institute of Rubber Research, is another; it accommodates less than half the students and is in every way unsuitable for a hostel, and the Health Department has refrained from condemning it simply because no other building is available.

126 THE EQUIPMENT IS DEPLORABLE. The equipment, such as it is, of the College is deplorable. So little actually exists that even students entering the College with no knowledge of what constitutes proper equipment have realized its inadequacy and expressed disquiet at the poor provision.

127 SERIOUS UNDER-STAFFING. With the exception of the Principal, and one officer seconded by the Survey Department for the instruction of Survey students, the Staff is Asiatic. It totals nine for 220 students as against Raffles College with sixteen Europeans and several Asiatic lecturers or demonstrators.

128 THE CURRICULUM IS PURELY VOCATIONAL. The curriculum aims at training technical subordinates and nothing more, i.e., it is purely vocational. Consequently it produces technicians in a narrow field, whereas the aim of a modern technical

===== Page 41 =====
College is to educate as well, so that its graduates in addition to sound technical qualifications will be balanced and intelligent men. The country needs technicians with initiative and resource, men of character and personality who will be the natural and valued leaders among any community to which they may be posted. These qualities are as essential a part of a technical officer's equipment as professional knowledge. The technical officer should be and can be a cultured, disciplined individual, an example to the community of the true value of education. Any suggestion that given the opportunity, the Asiatic lacks ability to profit by professional training, is contrary to all evidence. This equipment for citizenship together with sound engineering qualification is the goal to which the College should strive. It can be achieved, if all the factors necessary to success are properly assessed and provided for.

129 CHARACTER TRAINING IS ESSENTIAL. The proposals which follow are based upon the assumption that the country needs men of character and integrity, as well as sound technicians. Character training does not imply any diminution of the standard or scope of scholarship. Character is to a small extent, if at all, the product of the lecture room, but finds growth and development in the common rooms, the playing fields and in the various activities of the leisure hours. It is fashioned by sociability, by responsibility, by the abnegation of self for the well being of the community. In a properly organised community, opinion and behaviour are moulded subconsciously, and by example: the newcomer entering the fold where the tone is already set, finds that certain things are done, others not done and adapts himself accordingly. To inculcate an ineradicable standard of behaviour and outlook in the comparatively short time a student is in College means filling in a profitable manner all his hours and thoughts. It means that the staff will take a genuine interest, in the lives and thoughts of the students, who will turn naturally to the staff for advice and guidance.

130 THE VALUE OF RESIDENCE. Experience shows that the standard of scholarship falls considerably and that the character building influences find a more restricted field of effort when residence outside the College is allowed, and for this reason the College should be planned to provide residence and recreation for all within its boundaries. Sufficient area of ground is therefore essential. The grounds must not only house the College proper, the hostels, the students union building, staff houses and playing fields but be of sufficient area to permit proper landscaping—i.e., the arrangement of paths, green sward and massed foliage, fruit and vegetable gardens, so that colour and light and shade gives pleasant vistas and forms practical training in appreciation of the rich beauty of the Malayan landscape. Failure to acquire sufficient area of ground will not only seriously hamper proper layout, but make future needs, e.g., when the College obtains university status, difficult to realise. Further, the fact that additional ground must sooner or later be acquired will provide opportunity for site speculation, which should be avoided at all costs. The College must not be the subject of private gain on the part of any individual. The McLoan Report emphasized this when commenting upon the sites of the Colleges in Singapore and it is most important to avoid lack of such foresight in planning for the new Technical College.

131 THE AREA SCHEDULED IS COMPARED WITH THE AREA NEEDED. The site plan shows (a) the area already acquired, (b) is a portion leased for mining in September 1941. No work has been started on this latter section and if mining is allowed upon this area it will not only render it unusable for many years to come but destroy the amenities of the site already acquired for the College. It is therefore recommended that this lease should not be revived and steps taken to have this ground transferred from the Mines Department to Government and then scheduled as a permanent open space; (c) is the property of the Sultan of Perak, and if the land cannot be obtained as a donation to the College it might perhaps be exchanged for land elsewhere; (d) is rising ground with some poor rubber. It should be possible to acquire this without difficulty; (e) is a coconut and rubber plantation in private ownership which could be acquired at valuation; (f) is the rifle-range of the F.M.S. Volunteer Force. This is only

===== Page 42 =====
used occasionally, i.e. weekends and for special meetings and it is suggested that it might be moved to a site of less value, yet equally convenient for weekend use. These proposals are made in order that (a) the scheme may be fully and properly planned from the beginning, and (b) that when the College receives university status, the change will only be a paper one, i.e., will not require extension or addition to buildings or grounds. It cannot be too strongly emphasized that true economy will only be realised if future requirements are properly related to the initial plan. The degree of vision and decision displayed in the beginning will not only affect the conception of the scheme but influence the scope of the project in the years to come.

132 THE IMPORTANCE OF ORIENTATION. The layout, shown by the second diagram, provides for proper orientation of all buildings. This is an important factor in Malaya and one to which not nearly enough attention has been paid in the past. It makes the difference between an unbearably hot building and one which provides workable conditions without expensive air-conditioning plant. The absence of cooling breezes also demands that buildings should be generously spaced, so that no building shields another from what little breeze is available. Again too, residential accommodation is so sited that every study, bedroom and living room looks directly upon open space, yet the distance between buildings is kept to a minimum.

133 FULL RECREATIONAL FACILITIES. The Student Union Building should provide recreational facilities of the indoor type, swimming, and sports pavilion with changing rooms for visiting teams. Through this should come opportunities for training in self-government and organisation whereby character may be strengthened, individuality maintained, 'esprit de corps' and sociability fostered. The provision of the Student Union Building may be confidently expected to be a project which will interest a Chinese benefactor. All full-time students will be eligible for membership of the Union; the membership fee while being within the pocket of the average student should be sufficient to provide all the working capital required.

134 EFFICIENT COMMUNITY LIVING. The hostels are designed to provide efficient community living. Sleeping accommodation takes the form of a study bedroom for every two students. Bathrooms are situated so that students have a relatively short distance to travel, and lavatories while insulated from the main buildings are conveniently placed. The kitchens have an open-air well on all sides, with a short passage connecting them with the dining rooms. Each dining room is entered from a lounge hall in which students would congregate prior to meals. Open grass space is provided close to each hostel for early morning physical training, an essential feature in the training of mentally and physically fit citizens.

135 'GARDEN CITY' LAYOUT OF STAFF HOUSES. The layout of staff houses is upon garden-city lines, i.e., the houses being screened from one another by judiciously placed clumps of trees or bushes. At the same time no definite demarcation of garden for each house is made, the grounds thus being given a parklike quality, which with tennis courts for common use (to obviate provision of private tennis courts to houses where it may happen the occupant does not play) will help to foster a community spirit. It is intended that the area occupied by staff houses should not be considered a separate part of the grounds, but a portion of the whole to be enjoyed by all. Consequently, the landscaping of this area will be related to the rest, with pleasant vistas in every direction.

136 THE LAYOUT OF MAIN BUILDINGS, ROADS & PATHS ALL PART OF THE GENERAL SCHEME. A special feature of the planning of the main College building is the vista provided from the assembly hall, across the quadrangle through the archway between the generating station and the foundry, and continued into the distance by a green walk between an avenue of trees. The roads and paths too, are considered as part of the general layout, being designed to provide easy communication between all parts, yet preventing any tendency to speeding. It is intended

===== Page 43 =====
That every feature of the College should be such that students will feel pride in being and having been members, thus fostering loyalty to their alma mater and encouragement to return from time to time for refresher courses.

137 THE BUILDING PLANNED IN TERMS OF THE TIMETABLE & CURRICULUM. Fitness for purpose is a basic principle of all good design. It is particularly applicable to a building devoted to the sciences, for here should be found the wedding of the art and science of building giving efficiency combined with aesthetic appeal. It is no overstatement to suggest that just as the outward form of a human being is moulded by the bone and muscular structure beneath, so the exterior of a modern technical college should be determined by inward conditions arising from the timetable and the needs of the subjects in the curriculum. The number of students to be accommodated and the arrangement of lecture rooms and laboratories are factors which determine efficient movement and grouping.

138 THE AESTHETIC ASPECT IS CONSIDERED. It is self-evident that a building chosen for outward aesthetic appeal, while it may please a passer-by, is not necessarily efficient. Raffles College provides a case in point, for though being the prize-winning design in an open competition, it was found upon completion to lack a library and sufficient classrooms. Again too, it is poor economy to provide a building only suitable for immediate needs. With the goal of university status within ten years, the building should be such that no alteration or extension is necessary when this change takes place. The aim should be a building which will be efficient and adequate during the whole period of its useful life which should be at least fifty years.

139 THE INFLUENCE OF THE TIMETABLE & CURRICULUM ON DESIGN. Perusal of the sketch plan will show lecture rooms and laboratories so grouped that the minimum of movement between classes is necessary. Workshops are placed at a distance from lecture rooms and the administrative section according to the degree of noise inseparable from the particular subject taught, and stores arranged to act as screens. Again, while rooms devoted to academic study are double banked, those which are relatively noisy are kept single in order that full passage of air may be encouraged. Upon the engineering side, provision is made for full-time courses in Civil, Mechanical, Electrical, Mining, Post and Telegraphic and Aeronautical engineering, together with Surveying. In each case, the proposed provision of laboratories, apparatus and equipment is such that good practical experience may be obtained in each subject, and does not exceed in any particular the provision to be found in a good modern technical college such as Loughborough College, England.

140 THE IMPORTANCE OF A GOOD LIBRARY. A feature to which particular attention has been paid, being of special importance in Malaya where English is not the mother tongue, is the provision of a lending and reference technical library, with ancillary rooms for the study of engineering periodicals. With this is to be found a students' non-technical lending library, together with the room of the Senior tutor in English, so that wide reading may be encouraged and directed. Experience shows that special attention should be paid to the teaching of English to engineering students so that they may express themselves both orally and in writing in a clear and concise manner.

141 A LENDING LIBRARY ON 'COUNTY LIBRARY' LINES. The provision of a reference and lending technical library as an integral part of the College is designed to give opportunity for intimate acquaintance with the books available for specialised study, so that students graduating from the College will carry with them knowledge of the books which may be borrowed in order that they may continue to learn and keep abreast of modern developments. It is highly desirable that every student should feel the College course is but one phase of his education and have every encouragement and incentive to continue study after graduation. Further, it is proposed that the lending technical library should be based upon

===== Page 44 =====
A 'county library' scheme, with books being available to those of the general public genuinely anxious to pursue a course of study. It is proposed that outward going books should be post free, the borrower paying postage for return.

142 ADULT & PART-TIME EDUCATION. A modern technical college cannot afford to be concerned with only full-time students, enjoying seclusion or isolation from the everyday world. Its quality will be shown by the degree to which it offers something to all men desirous of improving their mental equipment. It must in fact be a 'people's university'. The provision of part-time and evening classes not only provides for fuller use of plant and equipment but encourages acceleration in the rate of adult educational progress. Past experience shows that the habit of attending evening classes is not easy to inculcate in Malaya any more than it was in its initial stages in the British Isles. It may be necessary to 'gild the pill' of learning by offering facilities for recreation to those who show themselves, by regular attendance, to be genuine students. Facilities for recreation might thus be offered to part-time students who have completed a year of regular attendance by offering associate membership of the Students Union. A student knowing that swimming, games and good fellowship are available at the same place as study will thus be encouraged in regular attendance.

143 THE COLLEGE & EQUIPMENT TO BE AVAILABLE TO THE COMMUNITY. Interest in the College should also be fostered by the use of the assembly and examination hall for amateur dramatics, public lectures, etc., so that the College becomes the natural centre for all public, social, and cultural activities. It should be freely available to engineering societies, etc., for conferences, while general education (national propaganda) should be encouraged by staging short exhibitions in the exhibition hall of such things as Chinese pottery, Malayan crafts, the work of public services such as Health, Post-Office, etc. All these are features necessary in the inculcation of a spirit of citizenship and national consciousness. Again, Malaya lacks facilities for the conduct of residential refresher courses, and it is proposed that the facilities of the College (both residential and tutorial) should be available for such purposes during the vacations. It will be seen from the foregoing that in proposing the fullest use of the College buildings and equipment, a maximum return will be obtained and fully justify generous support and provision.

144 AN INFORMATION BUREAU. All the above may be considered as provision normal to any technical college, or at the most development of certain features to a stage necessitated by present conditions. In the opening paragraphs of the memorandum, the need for fluidity in education, together with a constant casting about for ways of reaching out to the public, was stressed. In those countries where technical education is fully established, fluidity must to a large extent lie within the established scheme of education, but in other countries special conditions may be found which necessitate new projects. Protection of students from commercial educational traps might well be considered a special condition. Many instances might be quoted of young Malayans anxious to improve their knowledge and salary prospects falling prey to specious correspondence courses. Persuaded by clever sales techniques of their ability to pursue a course of study, they find after paying the initial fee that their general education is insufficient. They are then compelled to complete a course which is beyond them or pay up the full fee. This could be avoided if students were able to seek advice as to the standard of general education necessary before pursuing a certain course of study. Again, students may wish to ascertain particulars of the examinations to be passed in order to qualify for certain posts, or have a specific problem in the course of private study which prevents progress until the solution is found. These examples constitute a case for assistance from a modern technical college where a high concentration of specialised knowledge is to be found in the staff. These factors suggest the desirability of establishing an Information Bureau.

===== Page 45 =====
145 HOW THE INFORMATION BUREAU WOULD OPERATE.
An Information Bureau should be founded upon a businesslike basis, involving a moderate fee. Thus, a folio of ten foolscap sheets with ten gummed post-paid wrappers bearing the address of the College would be sent to enquirers upon receipt of say 85 cents. Each answer requiring a full foolscap sheet or less for a reply would be debited at 50 cents, and each additional sheet the same amount, automatically reducing the number of questions covered by the initial folio fee. Students not wishing to use all ten sheets could return blanks at any time and obtain the appropriate refund. The accountability in connection with this project would in this way be simple. By compiling an index of replies under subject headings, a fund of information not requiring specialist attention would be built up, i.e., questions being dealt with by the clerk in charge. Such a project, properly organised and directed, would not only meet a need, but should be self-supporting and in time yield revenue.

146 EXTRA-MURAL ACTIVITIES.
The organisation of public lectures, and of study groups in connection with these lectures, is another way in which the College can reach out and be of service to the general public. It should keep informed of the arrival in or passage through Malaya of every person of note and distinction, in order if possible to arrange for a public address or series of addresses, which might also be broadcast. The College, too, might arrange for a weekly broadcast hour, in which the general public could be informed of, for example, engineering projects of general interest to the community which may be going on in various parts of Malaya. These should be bright topical talks stimulating interest and pride of citizenship. They should be interspersed with talks on scientific phenomena given in simple language, gardening, hobbies, flora and fauna of Malaya, etc. These lectures would in fact be the beginning of an adult education movement.

147 AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING IS AN IMPORTANT MODERN DEVELOPMENT.
A department of Aeronautics is included in the list of full-time studies, not only because it is now an important branch of modern engineering and on account of the great impetus given by the war to general air-mindedness, but also because it is of particular importance to Malaya. There is no doubt that the post-war period will see greater use being made of the air as a means of transport, both of passenger and goods. This will be due, not to air interest but to a practical common-sense use of aircraft and aerodromes necessitated by the war, and which will only require to be kept in commission. The latter factor is important, for whereas the cost of constructing airfields for civil use was prohibitive in peacetime, i.e., as a commercial proposition, the cost of maintaining existing airfields is by no means prohibitive.

148 A GOOD LOCAL AIR SERVICE IS A SOUND PROPOSITION.
In countries thickly populated and well served by road and rail, the advantage of airfields relatively close together is small, for the additional cost of air transport cancels out the saving of time except for a limited number of people whose abilities and qualities are not easily duplicated. In places less developed, where a relatively small personnel highly qualified and specialised, assume responsibility or control of a large area or a big body of widely dispersed labour, then a good local air service is a sound proposition.

149 PROVISION OF AIRFIELDS DUE TO THE WAR.
These conditions are to be found in certain of the Colonies, particularly those which have been near or have been part of the theatre of war. Prior to the war, Malaya had five or six airfields served by a limited commercial air service subsidised by Government. The war was responsible for considerable augmentation of airfields and while all will not be necessary, (except perhaps as emergency landing grounds), the distance of those fields is such that every centre of population is easily accessible by air. The war, too, has been responsible for the training of a number of locally born people as air mechanics, consequently only a relatively small European personnel would be required. It is also certain that with the thousands trained for air services, no difficulty will be found in obtaining the services of experienced pilots and technicians.

===== Page 46 =====
150 A GOOD AIR SERVICE ENABLES EXPERIENCED OFFICERS TO HAVE A WIDE FIELD OF SERVICE. The war has caused heavy inroads to be made into the experienced technical and administrative personnel of the country, and economic conditions prevailing after the war will probably require experienced officers to take responsibility for areas greater than were formerly required. Personal oversight by experienced officers is a big factor in the promotion of efficiency and a good local air service will contribute to this.

151 A CIVIL AVIATION SCHEME IS ENVISAGED. The form or type of organisation which post-war civil aviation will take must depend upon extraneous factors, for internal efficiency is dependent upon the degree to which the organisation is linked to other organisations. There can be little doubt that with the tremendous strides made in aviation, any return to the pre-war scheme, i.e. a subsidised commercial enterprise, is unthinkable, for civil aviation must now be regarded as a public utility service and comparable in importance or even greater than the railways. The service may, therefore, be organised in either of the following ways:

(a) An international or world Air Service, with the local service organised and controlled by the world service—i.e., in the same way as a suburban train service is operated from the main terminus of a large railway company.

(b) An international or Empire Air Service—linked with a smaller locally controlled service covering the Netherlands East Indies, Borneo, Malaya, Siam, etc.

(c) An International or Empire Air Service—linked with a local service covering Malaya only.

The scheme (a) envisages a huge organisation with remote control of the local service. This has little to recommend it since the internal needs of the country would necessarily be subordinated to the large service. The choice between (b) and (c) will depend upon political consideration arising from the relative claims of economic unity for an area as opposed to national unity. Either scheme may be adopted without affecting the proposal to establish a department of Aeronautics at the Technical College, for unless the service is to be operated regardless of cost or economic efficiency, the personnel must largely consist of those locally born. Pilots must be trained as thoroughly as those for Imperial Airways, and the ground staff be of a calibre to justify public confidence in the safety and efficiency of the service. The training of these men must be as thorough as for any other branch of engineering, and the qualification of the tutorial staff equally high, and this training must be started as soon as possible. Again too, it is desirable in order to establish confidence that there should be on hand an independent authority, i.e., one not connected with the service who may be called upon to assist or act as assessor at any enquiry into accidents. Such a person must be highly qualified and with sufficient experience to be accepted as an authority, and it is proposed that the Professor of Aeronautics might well act in this capacity.

152 A DEPARTMENT OF ARCHITECTURE. The proposal that a department of Architecture should be incorporated in the new Technical College has no basis in desire for a multiplicity of departments or for display calculated to give false importance to the College, but arises from the importance of relating the special conditions due to geographical position and climate of Malaya to building and thus make residences and offices places in which to 'live' and 'work'.

153 A SPECIAL STUDY OF MALAYAN CONDITIONS IS NECESSARY. McGrath in his book 'Twentieth Century Houses' says, "The design of a house is dependent upon what is made possible by the purpose of the rooms, the separate parts of the plan. Relation of those parts is conditioned by the price and form of structure, the area of land and its direction, weather, views and natural details, the needs and taste of the owner and the knowledge and art of the Architect." Again, "Art is the ordered selection of things giving pleasure to the mind through the senses. Order is organisation of different parts for a united purpose; the art of building is to make a place for living in, simplest as a protection and most complex as a stage for all operations and interests of the person for whom it is designed."

===== Page 47 =====
154 SOME CONDITIONS SPECIFIED. Those are factors that require careful consideration in the planning of buildings in Malaya. At one end of the scale there is the pretentious building, and at the other end the good-enough-for-the-purpose building to be avoided. There must be a serious attempt to meet the special conditions of climate arising from the situation of Malaya. Orientation is of prime importance, and should be the same as for northern climates though for a reason the reverse of that for a cooler atmosphere. In Malaya its purpose is to avoid the long rays of the rising and setting sun from entering the building, and so heating the atmosphere during the day and night. Again, Malaya being but a few degrees north of the equator, with the sun at certain periods of the year moving fourteen degrees north and south of the equator, means that provision must be made for shielding a building from the sun on both north and south.

155 OTHER FACTORS REQUIRING STUDY. Humidity which is very high in Malaya comes hardly second to heat. Too little fenestration means a dark house in which hot moist air remains without movement unless agitated by whirling fans. To fool positive benefit from a fan it is necessary to be immediately below or near the fan and that generally means, as a result of perspiration soaked clothes cooled by a fan, a chill or heavy cold very difficult to cure. On the other hand too great an area of fenestration means glare with consequent headaches and eye strain. To this may be added the factor of sporadic torrential downpour.

156 THE NEED FOR RESEARCH. Those are but a few of the special conditions which require extensive study and experiment, and will only be solved by such means. It is self-evident that a department such as the Public Works Department concerned not only with buildings of all kinds, but roads, bridges etc., cannot afford the time to conduct this study and experiment, for the requirements of those for whom this department caters are too diverse to permit such work. Again, industrial concerns cannot be expected to display interest in any type of building other than that which appears suitable for their immediate needs. For this reason there is need for much research in this direction.

157 EVOLUTION OF A MALAYAN STYLE OF ARCHITECTURE. Quality and character in building do not mean attention solely to aesthetic values, any more than character and personality in man depend solely on good manners. In both there are other positive values giving added purpose. Physical fitness implies balanced and coordinated living; architectural fitness implies balanced expression of purpose, coordinated to give maximum efficiency with aesthetic appeal. Once the positive value of a style of architecture characteristically Malayan has been demonstrated, its superiority will be so apparent that it will be adopted by commercial companies no less than Government & Municipal Departments. At the same time the evolution of a Malayan style will be a positive integer in the creation of good taste generally.

158 THE INFLUENCE OF A SMALL DEPARTMENT MAY BE WIDE. Those things are part of the task of education, and consequently fall within the purview of the Technical College. The School of Architecture may never be large - in fact it is unlikely to be so, but the school though small may be highly efficient and exert an influence relatively comparable with that enjoyed by the School of Architecture of Liverpool University, which has been the training ground of a number of British Architects of international reputation.

159 THE PRACTICE IN ENGLAND IS A PRECEDENT. Public buildings in England are invariably the work of the architects department of the local authority. In all but the smaller of the local authorities, the 'county' or 'city' architects department is subdivided giving specialisation in certain types of building, e.g. schools or hospitals. In fact, efficiency demands that this specialisation should occur, for only a person fully conversant with the special requirements of modern education, or the organisation of hospitals, can give full expression to those needs.

===== Page 48 =====
160. MODERN EDUCATIONAL BUILDING NEEDS SPECIALISATION. Developments in practical education, together with increased provision necessitated by a reorganised system of education in Malaya, suggest that economy and efficiency would be gained by placing responsibility for the design of all buildings for educational purposes in the hands of a department specially organised for this work, and situated in the Technical College. It is proposed that there should be (a) a School or Department of Architecture under a Professor of Architecture to provide (i) a training course in architecture for those locally born, (ii) opportunity for research in architecture with special reference to local conditions; (b) a school architects department specialising in buildings for educational purposes. Under (a) (ii) all government and municipal departments as well as private concerns would have the benefit of research undertaken by the Professor of Architecture. The Professor would, as in the case of professorships at modern English Universities, be available for consultation and advice - e.g. Professor of Chemistry, Imperial College of Science is retained as consultant by large chemical concerns. This practice is encouraged since it promotes freshness of outlook, and further the additional emoluments gained from this work make it possible to attract the services of a person to the professorship whose standing and brilliance would ensure a large income as a private practitioner. A precedent for this proposal exists in Malaya - namely, Government and Municipal chemists who undertake private work receive half the fee paid, the other half going to the department. In Architecture, as in other professions where all hold similar basic qualifications, there are ordinary practitioners and specialists. The Professor of Architecture must, if he is to command the respect and confidence of his followers, have outstanding qualifications recognised in the salary and emoluments attached to the post. The services of the Professor of Architecture, during the first year or two of appointment, might well be utilised in replanning those towns in Malaya devastated by war. The advantages of a school architects department contiguous with that of the School of Architecture are, (a) association would promote freshness and interest, (b) the school architects department would provide sound drawing office experience for students of the School. Further the Technical College being an integral part of the educational system, incorporation of the school architects department within the building, would give opportunity for full knowledge of educational requirements and developments, a factor which will have potent influence upon design. An important feature of this proposal is that while the School of Architecture is to be one of the professional courses provided by the Technical College, the school architects department is only housed in the College, in all other respects it is part of the Department of Education, consequently salaries and conditions would be those enjoyed by all Government officers. Again it is useful to remember that with the heavy demands for buildings of all descriptions which will arise, it is probable that the Public Works Department would welcome relief from the demands of education, and at the same time the educational building programme would be accelerated without adversely, but on the contrary favourably, affecting the standard of building. There can be no doubt that specialisation of this type is conducive to economy for exact knowledge of requirements is a positive factor in the avoidance of waste.

161. A DEPARTMENT OF ARTS & CRAFTS IS COMMON IN TECHNICAL COLLEGES. Architecture is an art not a science, and therefore falls naturally within that group of studies comprehended by the title Department of Fine Art. Modern Building is, however, related to engineering through the use of steel and concrete forms, consequently a Department or School of Art, or to use a modern description Schools of Arts & Crafts, is not anomalous in a technical college. Such provision is common in technical colleges in England.

162. THE ADVANTAGES OF AN ARTS & CRAFTS DEPARTMENT. A properly organised college, i.e. one which provides fluidity, can benefit extensively from the presence of engineering and art studies under one roof. The use of highly specialised staff to maximum advantage means close liaison between all departments, thus it is advantageous to arrange that civil engineering students should receive

===== Page 49 =====
Instruction in building construction and draughtsmanship from the staff of the School of Architecture, and this be offset by architectural students attending lectures on the theory of structures given by the Department of Engineering.

163 ARTS & CRAFTS ARE LINKED WITH THE LIFE OF THE COUNTRY. Interior decoration and furniture design are closely related to architecture, the latter being based upon architectural form, while sculpture as a decorative factor in building should also be contained in a department of 'Fine Art'. This department should be linked with the life of the country through the medium of its craft studies, send its message through the training of teachers in arts and crafts, and other manual activities. Model-making, i.e., the construction of scale architectural and other models, should with sculpture find a place in the School of Arts & Crafts.

164 TRAINING OF TEACHERS IN ARTS & CRAFTS. It is axiomatic that the quality of education which children receive is in direct relation to the quality of the teacher. This is most evident in practical work, i.e., subjects involving manual activity, for education of this type may be subjected to visual assessment. The handbook "Suggestions to Teachers" issued by the Board of Education states, "handicraft is not taught in school because it is useful to a few children, but because it is useful to all children." It is useful in that it develops fertility of resource, confidence and imagination. Qualities in the development of character which should be the key purpose.

165 THE SUCCESS OF THE NEW SENIOR SCHOOLS WILL DEPEND UPON THE TEACHERS. The success of the new senior vernacular school, which it is proposed should be the way of approach in the vernacular education system to practical activity will depend upon quality of the teacher. It is not too much to say that unless the teachers in these schools are well educated, are competent teachers and craftsmen, the whole purpose and justification for extending the curriculum will be lost. Consequently, it is essential that the quality and duration of the training course should be such that there will be no question of the competency and ability of those teachers to inculcate in the children these qualities, namely, fertility of resource, self-confidence and initiative, which constitute the reason for introducing practical activities into the schools. Modern education demands that its teachers should not be narrow-minded pedagogues, but broad-minded sympathetic leaders, inspiring in the children a degree of enthusiasm and imagination that encourages expression of the latent power within them. Modern teaching is not the dry dogmatic instillation of facts, memorised by repetition, but the stimulation of the child mind to observation and knowledge of the exciting things which exist in the world.

166 THE INFLUENCE OF THE TEACHERS WILL BE WIDE SPREAD. With these facts in mind, it is evident since economic, political and practical considerations render it necessary to pursue a policy of 'gradualness' in the introduction of these teachers into the schools, i.e., one in each school before duplication takes place, that each teacher in training should on graduation possess qualities of character, personality and craftsmanship and more than average ability. The teachers trained in the first ten years will be the potential headmasters of the future fully fledged senior schools. It is among them that will be found the local inspectorate of the established senior vernacular school department. Consequently, it is essential that the curriculum and organisation of the teacher training department should be extremely carefully considered, and that the department should be situated where these facilities can be given maximum effect.

167 A TRAINING DEPARTMENT FOR TEACHERS IN A TECHNICAL COLLEGE HAS BEEN SUCCESSFUL IN ENGLAND. Every live organisation or system, if it is to function in a healthy vigorous manner, must like the human body have good circulation. The Technical College should constitute the 'power house' or 'heart' of the practical and technical educational system. It draws from the schools of the country youthful vitality, fashions it and then sends this new blood back to the schools, to

===== Page 50 =====
Technical departments and to industry; charged with enthusiasm, energy, vitality, and knowledge. Loughborough College, England, has shown the value to be gained by incorporating a department for the training of teachers of practical subjects with students of engineering. It provides a broadness of mind, a degree of understanding of the work of others in different walks of life unobtainable in institutions only concerned with the training of teachers or of engineers. This amalgamation not only permits the fullest use of specialist staff but gives economy of plant and apparatus.

168 THE NUMBER OF TEACHERS TO BE TRAINED. Bearing in mind that there will be at least four types of vernacular senior schools namely, Malay, Chinese, Indian, and Eurasian, and that those schools should be established for each race proportionately to racial numbers, a reasonable rate of provision would be an output of one hundred male teachers per year, which with a four-year course would give an enrolment of 400 in the training department. The proposed enrolment of the new Technical College is 800 engineering students (para. 103), and four hundred teachers in training. It is considered that twelve to fourteen hundred students (full time) is the approximate maximum for efficiency and if at any future time conditions indicate growth much above this figure that a second institution should be provided elsewhere.

169 ENGLISH AS A UNIFYING FACTOR. It has been suggested that English should be taught as a "subject" in the vernacular schools. It would mean that there would be a unifying factor operative throughout the school course (or rather two years after the beginning of the school course, as the mother tongue would on educational grounds be at first the sole language used) and this would have a very great advantage in fostering a Malayan outlook. Moreover, to avoid the complete racial segregation involved in a vernacular school system it is proposed that the craft and English classes should be 'mixed', i.e., that the pupils should be drawn from the different vernacular schools so that from an early age the various races will mingle and learn to know one another and realise their common heritage. Both for craft teaching and the English teaching, specialist teachers will be necessary. It will be a measure of economy therefore to train the craft teachers as teachers of English as well. It will incidentally enhance the importance of practical work by allying it with the important English section of the school syllabus.

170 WHAT IS MEANT BY PRACTICAL ACTIVITIES. The term 'practical activities' covers those subjects requiring co-ordinated muscular activity, e.g., physical training, gardening, woodwork, metalwork, bookcrafts, basketry, drawing, etc. The training course would include those (gardening being done in co-operation with the neighbouring School of Agriculture), together with English, Mathematics, General Science, Technology of Tools and Materials, Pedagogy and Method. Subjects will be grouped and certain of them chosen for advanced study.

171 GIRLS MUST BE CONSIDERED. No system of education can be considered sound which caters for only one sex. The education of women and girls is of equal importance to that of the male sex. It, however, lags behind that for men and boys and it may be necessary to proceed slowly with provision in the early years of this scheme, and then accelerate sharply when conditions justify it. With this in mind, the scheme provides for the training of fifty women craft teachers per year, with an enrolment of 200 for the four-year course. It is proposed that crafts traditionally the prerogative of women should be accommodated on the ground floor of the women's hostel. Those crafts are cookery, housewifery, needlework, embroidery, etc. Block and screen printing, weaving, batik, craft design, drawing, English, general science, hygiene and mathematics being taken in the main College building or in the Institute of Craft Research. Physical

===== Page 51 =====
Training, organised games, gardening (gardening being done in co-operation with the School of Agriculture) would be taken in the grounds around the Hostel. These arrangements should go far to improve the status and standing of women in Asiatic races, as well as providing for a reform in the curriculum of girls' schools that is even more urgent than in the boys' schools.

172 THE FINANCIAL ASPECT OF EDUCATIONAL REORGANISATION. Reorganisation envisaged in this memorandum, stressing as it does the need to expand primary education, to reorient technical education, and to develop native crafts and industries, may give rise to the belief that the cost of education will be greatly increased. This would, however, be a misconception, as will be realized when it is made clear that many of the proposals are not additional to what existed in the past, but rather alternative in type and purpose; while others such as technifactories and craft development will be self-supporting.

173 A PRACTICAL & ECONOMIC SOLUTION TO DEFINITE PROBLEMS. Education will not justify itself by grandiose and lavish schemes which supply the form but not the spirit. All the proposals contained in this memorandum are designed to provide a practical solution to definite problems, and the solution to be practical must not involve expenditure beyond reason. The intention throughout is to provide through rationalisation and planned economy a better return for the money expended - particularly that which has been spent on education unsuited to the needs of the country. In education, as with everything else, there are certain basic costs which cannot be reduced without serious detriment to efficiency; in fact, there is a stage beyond which sudden cuts or retrenchment ceases to be economy and becomes waste. In many ways the educational machine is analogous to a motor car with a three-speed gearbox. Bottom gear represents minimum expenditure below which the car will stall; second gear allows reasonable progress up and down the hilly country to be traversed on the long journey, while top gear permits time to be made up on the low-level stretches. Low gear means a high expenditure of fuel for the short distance travelled, and continuance in low gear when a higher gear might be engaged means heavy wear and tear on the machine and relatively high fuel cost. The use of second and top gear according to the nature of the road to be travelled permits a good average to be maintained and relatively low cost for the whole journey.

174 A LONG TERM POLICY IS NECESSARY. Education is a long journey with the end far beyond the horizon, and it must therefore be done in stages. A reasonable stage would be ten years, for that is the span of a child's school life; and true economy and the true cost of education is the average of ten years. Large expenditure in one year, and low in another year according to the state of industry is in effect unsound, for it does not take into account the hills and valleys of education, but only that of industry and these differ considerably in contour. The design of the educational machine is such that fuel has to be taken in every year and may be too little to carry it efficiently to the next year, while in other years fuel may be available in excess of that required, and cannot be carried on but must be used or returned and lost. This rather elaborate analogy is given to illustrate the importance of a long term policy in education and with it a long term policy of finance.

175 A LONG TERM POLICY IS ESSENTIAL TO PLANNED ECONOMY. A long term policy is particularly desirable with capital expenditure, i.e., for school building, for it permits proper distribution and provision according to need whereas under the present system a building scheduled to be erected in one year may through financial stringency be 'cut out' and not be reinstated in future years. A ten year programme for education means planning which will permit a given goal to be reached at the end of this time. It will permit proper relation of each year of work to the preceding or following years. It will allow for proper (a) alignment

===== Page 52 =====
with the output of trained teachers, (b) distribution of school accommodation according to the number of children scheduled to receive a certain type of education in any particular area and at any particular date, (c) balance between Senior, Technical and English schools.

176 THE RELATION OF EDUCATIONAL EXPENDITURE TO OTHER EXPENDITURE. Consideration of the cost of education in Malaya should not be based purely on previous cost, but related to expenditure on other public services, and also to expenditure on education in other countries and colonies. The amount allocated to education in Malaya is approximately six per cent (slightly less in the Straits Settlements and slightly more in the Federated Malay States with its more numerous Malay population receiving education) of total Government expenditure, whereas that for other colonies averages more like twelve per cent, rising as much as fifteen per cent in some colonies such as Fiji. Again too, expenditure on education should be compared with expenditure on say, the Police and Medical services, before assessing the allocation which may reasonably be given to education.

177 EXPENDITURE SHOULD BE ANALYSED. It is important that the reason for any increase in the cost of education should be clearly defined, i.e. whether increased cost is due to extension of number in receipt of education or due to change from academic to practical activities. Improvement or 'up-grading' must also be taken into account.

178 INCREASED EXPENDITURE DUE TO COST OF APPARATUS NOT INCREASED STAFF. Change from academic to practical education does not mean any increase in teaching staff or in emoluments for these remain the same. Practical education admittedly costs more because apparatus is substituted for text books and a variety of consumable material for equipment with a fairly long life. On the other hand prolongation of school life or increase in the number of children in receipt of education will also increase cost for it means more teachers. The payment of teachers is a standing charge, and should be considered not as a whole, but according to the type of school in which they teach. The Senior school project detailed in this memorandum provides for a locally born teaching staff. The salary scale of a trained teacher (i.e. three year course at the Technical College) being that adopted for Senior schools. It is essential to the success of this scheme that teachers should be (a) properly trained (b) equal in calibre to teachers in other schools, so that unfortunate differentiation should not be allowed to develop (the Spens Report stresses the importance of Senior, Technical and Secondary schools being regarded as equal in status and differing only in the form of education given, being in accordance with the aptitude and need of the child). The right type of teacher will be obtained only if conditions of service are equally attractive.

179 EXPENDITURE ON TECHNICAL SCHOOLS. The staffing of technical schools will be the same as for existing Trade schools, i.e. with a European Principal. Any increase in the educational European establishment for these schools over and above the number which exists at present will be in direct proportion to increase in the number of schools of this type. Where technical schools form part of the techni-factory project, a European will be Principal as with Technical schools. Any augmentation with Europeans of the factory staff in the initial stages of development will not be a charge on education but will be offset ultimately against revenue from the factory. These Europeans will in the first instance be regarded as being essentially craftsmen engaged upon production, and through their work influencing upgrading in the skill of locally born people. Only if and when they become principals of other technifactories will they become a charge on education. The ultimate intention in this scheme as in other branches of education is to speed up the acquisition of craftsmanship and knowledge by locally born people so that they may be appointed to executive posts as soon as they merit such appointment.

===== Page 53 =====
180 THE STAFFING OF TECHNICAL HIGH SCHOOLS. The same ratio of Europeans to locally born people will apply to Technical High schools as exists in English schools. Pre-war vacancies on the European establishment amounted to eight. The war in Malaya has caused heavy loss in European personnel; losses which are greatly to be deplored, but which will make acceleration of the staffing of Technical High schools possible. Development of Technical High schools will not, therefore, involve any large additional financial commitments for European staff, for the Department of Education presented to Government before the war began in Malaya a policy which was accepted in principle and which may now be adopted in practice, namely that a reasonable proportion of vacancies on the European establishment should be filled by men qualified, not for teaching in English schools, but in the technical schools.

181 THE RELATION OF SERVICE TO SALARY. It should be stressed here that the value of the services of a European is in direct relation to the qualification and experience necessary for a particular post, and is not increased or decreased by the supposed differences in the standing of the school. Therefore, a European whose qualifications and experience make him ideally fitted for a post in a technical school is worth as much to the community as a European in a technical high school or English school. Europeans of the type required will only be attracted to Malaya by offering conditions worthy of serious consideration. Malaya with its relatively small European establishment cannot afford and does not deserve mediocrity.

182 SALARY SCALE FOR LOCALLY BORN TEACHERS. Salary scales for locally born people should be based upon the type of school to which they are appointed. The system should provide division into 1. Primary, 2. Senior, 3. Secondary (technical schools, technifactory schools, technical high schools, and English schools), 4. Higher education - Evening classes, Refresher courses, Adult education, School of Agriculture, Raffles College, Technical College, College of Medicine.

183 THE SALARY SCALES ARE SHOWN. (1) Primary - (a) Vernacular, as for the Malay schools (time scale $30 - $100 a month), (b) English, the scale proposed for products of the Training Classes employed in Government English Afternoon schools ($50-$150 a month). (2) Senior (a) Vernacular trained as for the Malay schools, (b) Raffles College, Technical College (Normal trained while employed), the pre-war Normal Class Scheme $130 - $300 (time scale) a month. (3) Secondary - pre-war Raffles College scheme, the time scale $155 - $300 a month. All these salary schemes to retain their pre-war super-scale and allowances.

184 PURCHASE OF EQUIPMENT. The practical bias given to education will involve supply of apparatus and consumable material. In both of these certain standards of quality must be maintained in order that full value may be obtained from instruction and also that the qualities of accuracy and good workmanship may be achieved without undue increase of effort. Economy with quality will be effected by bulk purchase by a central departmental store, for this will reduce initial cost as well as freight charges. Proposals designed to effect economy with efficiency in school building are contained in paragraph 160.

185 REVENUE EARNED BY THE SCHOOLS SHOULD GO TO THE SCHOOLS. The degree to which the educational authority should encourage or dissuade 'sales returns' or revenue from the schools should not be based only upon finance. Unfortunately, no lead in this is given by local authorities in England, for the practice varies between authorities, and even between the different crafts taught in the schools belonging to one authority. However, one point may be strongly emphasized, namely, that there is no relation whatever between 'sales returns' and educational efficiency. The allowance for consumable material used in all forms of craftwork

===== Page 54 =====
Should be such that a properly designed scheme of work may be carried out without interruption or stoppage. Practical activities require two things: (1) acquisition of knowledge gained through learning a new process or operation, and (2) sufficient exercise in this operation or process to give the child confidence and mastery. From this, it follows that the child should see the value or use of each process or operation, for this gives purpose and interest. 

In woodwork, for example, the construction of a series of mortice and tenon joints is valuable except for the exercise provided. If, however, these joints are incorporated in the construction of a stool or small table, the child sees not only the reason and purpose of the joints and the importance of accuracy, but also gains confidence, interest, and pride of achievement, for he has succeeded in entering the field of adult activity. 

Admittedly, the construction of a stool or small table involves consumption of more material than is required for exercise, but the view of progressive authorities is that the gain to the child in development of character and in the retention of interest (an important but fugitive quality in a child) is worth more than the extra cost of material. Modern educational psychology too places great value in the ownership by the child of the things he makes, for it develops confidence, pride, and incentive to further progress if the child can display his work in the home circle. 

The view taken by progressive authorities concerning the cost of material is that if the child can afford to pay for the material used he should do so; failing this, a proportion of the cost within the child's capacity to pay should be required, but if the child is unable to pay anything then the article should be given free, for no child should be debarred from making anything from which he will gain benefit in the making through poverty. 

An insufficient allowance for consumable material leads to educational abuses, e.g. orders may be placed for articles and the money advanced for the material. In cases of this kind it will be obvious that the educational needs of the child will be subordinated to the clients' requirements, for it is rare for educational needs at any given moment to coincide with an order placed by an individual. Such things tend to become exploitation of child labour, and occupational rather than educational. 

Revenue produced by the schools should go to the schools, or to education generally, to educational research, or to the stimulation of native crafts, and the principle should be established that if a school needs a proportion of the revenue which it has earned in order to carry on the work without interruption, it should have it.

186 TALENT SHOULD BE RECOGNIZED. Under the new scheme, promising young men and women should be earmarked for future senior posts, and their careers shaped to this end, with provision for further training which would make them fitted for these posts. Economy and efficiency require that the maximum output of each individual should be obtained, and this output directed in such a way that full benefit accrues to the community.

187 PERSONNEL OF NEW ORGANISATION. Vision and breadth of mind together with sound experience are vital to successful organisation. Education is of such great importance to future generations that foundation work will demand unstinted giving and devotion by all those engaged upon it. It is a cause to which a call must be felt and answered by those with energy and enthusiasm. The direction of this project, both in general and particular, must show evidence of intimate knowledge of modern developments in practical and technical education; of educational administration, and of the special difficulties and problems which beset each branch of teaching and teacher training. It must also show cognizance of the positive values to be found in residential institutions: in cultural and general education and also in aesthetics. All those have to be related to the special conditions of a tropical country with a mixed population. That which may be ominously suitable and successful in England cannot be 'dumped' down unaltered in Malaysia, for success is dependent

===== Page 55 =====
Upon feeling the pulse of the people, and from this diagnosing the form which education should take, so that it may be imbibed without upset, injury or irritation.

188 WIDTH OF EXPERIENCE VITAL. It will be necessary to keep balance between all phases of activity; encouraging and stimulating all without undue specialization and bias in any direction. The responsibility is great and fulfillment of the obligation which acceptance of this responsibility entails can only be achieved from experience of primary and secondary schools, of technical institutes and schools of Arts & Crafts, of residential colleges, adult education, and educational administration combined with a knowledge of Malaya. If economy is to be joined to efficiency, it will involve the appointment of a relatively small European staff but of exceptional calibre. High specialist qualification must be added to a degree of personality and character which, while maintaining individuality, will work harmoniously as a team.

189 THE CHOICE IS LIMITED. The field of choice is necessarily limited; for those who have achieved a position commensurate with the experience and qualification necessary for the work will naturally prefer to continue in a known atmosphere (having security of tenure in pensionable service) rather than adventure into a new field involving unknown factors and a break in continuity of service. To the young, service in the Colonies is an adventure, but those reasonably mature in experience and qualification have family responsibilities which will mean very real personal sacrifice of home ties and considerable restriction of the cultural and social activities at hand in England. Then too, the relatively better emoluments which Malaya offers to the young man or those on the lower salary scales do not pertain to senior or super-scale posts, for with those the monetary rewards are less than, or at the most about equal to, those given for similar posts in England.

190 NO PLACE FOR MEDIOCRITY. With a small European staff, Malaya cannot afford to carry any 'passengers'. It cannot afford to offer even a reasonable salary to mediocrity but it can and must afford conditions sufficiently attractive to stimulate the interest of those possessing outstanding ability, for the return will be immeasurably greater.

191 IMPORTANCE OF SELECTION & ATTRACTIVE CONDITIONS OF SERVICE. A realistic assessment of the nature of the work with an accurate appreciation of the amount of work involved is required. It is not something to be taken lightly or without a clear idea of the toll on nervous and physical energy entailed, particularly to the older men it is desired to recruit. It is not a job which can be half done or badly done, for the issues are too important and the effect upon the people too great to allow any result but that of complete success. The factors to be kept clearly in mind are (a) unity of purpose in each branch of education, (b) economy consistent with efficiency, (c) the amount of organisation and direction required in each branch of education in each stage of development, (d) the difficulty of recruiting experienced men, (e) difficulty of adequately covering long leave.

192 PROGRESSIVE DEVELOPMENT THE KEY TO A SOUND SCHEME. Progressive development rather than attempts at immediate creation of a complete system will enable many of these factors to be determined in a satisfactory manner. The start must be at the top—i.e., the Technical College for the supply of all locally born trained teaching staff for Senior, Technical, and Technical High Schools, and technical subordinates must emanate from the College. It will be obvious, therefore, that the Technical High Schools cannot function in a proper manner for at least four years after commencement of training at the College. To attempt it would prejudice all chance of success, for the only staff available would be those with academic qualifications. The same condition will apply to Senior schools. The provision of a training course for teachers and for technical subordinates is extremely urgent and cannot wait upon the erection of the permanent building. The tutorial staff of the College can be permanent.

===== Page 56 =====
Appointments should be proceeded with immediately, despite the handicap of temporary and unsuitable premises. The appointment of staff prior to the erection of the permanent building has the advantage that it will enable specialist staff to be consulted as to the equipment and the layout required for each branch of study. It is most important that those who have to direct work in laboratories and workshops should have the opportunity of reconciling the apparatus to be installed with their scheme of work.

193 STAFF TO BE APPOINTED TO THE COLLEGE. Further, it is an essential part of these proposals that the teaching staff of the College should be appointed to the College and not to departments within the College. This will permit the fullest use of specialist knowledge, e.g. Civil engineering students will attend lectures on building construction given by the department of Architecture, and students in the school of Architecture will attend lectures on the theory of structure given by the School of Engineering. The Lecturer in Physical Training in addition to lecturing and demonstrating to teachers in training the teaching of Physical Training will also conduct classes in physical training for engineering students and teachers in training. The degree to which the services of each of the European staff are to be utilised will be seen by the key letters which follow the title of each post, while - mEN and mLB - before the title of the post will indicate respectively whether the post is to be filled by a European or by a locally born male. Further, - wEN and wLB indicates a female appointment. A indicates Administration, D indicates Domestic staff (i.e. teaching staff acting as wardens of hostels), PE indicates Preliminary Year Engineering students, E indicates Engineering students, B indicates Architecture, C indicates Craft Research, MT indicates Men Teachers in training, WT indicates Women Teachers in training, GP indicates General Public, e.g. part time adult education, lending branch of the library, local air service etc., M indicates responsibility for College Maintenance in some particular branch - e.g. Professor of Electrical Engineering would control the power station. The whole staff would be expected to share equally in the social and leisure hours activities of the College.

194 THE COLLEGE STAFF WILL BE:

1. mEN Principal A,B,C,PE,E,MT,WT,GP,M.
2. mEN Professor of Electrical Engineering E,M.
3. mEN Mechanical E,M.
4. mEN Aeronautical E,GP,M.
5. mEN Civil E,B.
6. mEN Mining & Metallurgy E,GP (consult).
7. mEN Art (Craft Design) MT,WT,C.
8. mEN Architecture B,E,GP.
9. mEN Pedagogy, Psychology and Method MT,GP.
10. mEN Lecturer Telecommunications E,GP.
11. mEN Surveying E.
12. mEN Aircraft Construction E,GP.
13. mEN Aircraft Navigation E,GP.
14. mEN Professor of English (from Dept. of Education staff) PE,E,MT,WT.
15. mEN Lecturer Sculpture, Modelmaking, Pottery MT,WT,C,GP.
16. mEN Art Metalwork (Silversmithing, Jewellery, Enamelling) MT,WT,C.
17. mEN Block & Screen Printing, Lithography, Bookcrafts MT,WT,C.
18. mEN Woodwork PE,MT.
19. mEN MT,E (with coach building for F.M.S. Railway students).
20. mEN Metalwork (engineering) PE,E.

===== Page 57 =====
21. mEN Lecturer of Metalwork (Engineering) MT.M.
22. mEN Physical Training PE,E,MT.
23. mEN General Science & Gardening PE,E,MT.
24. wEN Weaving WT,C,GP.
25. wEN Graphic Art (Craft Design) MT,WT,C,GP.
26. wEN Needlework & Embroidery WT,C.
27. wEN Physical Training WT.D.
28. wEN Housewifery WT.D.
29. wEN General Science, Hygiene, Dietetics WT.D.
30. wEN Professor of Pedagogy, Psychology & Method W.T.
31. mLB Senior Lecturer PE,E,B,MT, and 58 mLB and wLB Lecturers.

Administrative
32. mLB Librarian GP,PE,E,B,C,MT,WT with mLB assistants.
33. mEN Architect (assistant) GP (responsible under Professor for educational buildings) M with LB assistants.
34. mEN Organiser (assistant) Adult Education & Evening classes, student activities, GP.

Domestic
35. mLB Head Gardener & Groundsman M with mLB assistants.
36. mEN Engineer in charge of Power Station M (responsible to Prof. Elec. Eng. for College Electric equipment.)
37. mEN in charge of Machine installation, maintenance and repair.
38. wEN Confidential Secretary to Principal (part-time European woman to attend for confidential memos.)
39. wEN Welfare Officer for Women Students (part-time, to be filled as for 37 by experienced European who may be available).
40. mLB College Secretary & Registrar PE,E,MT,WT.
41. mLB Steward D. (responsible to the Principal for all domestic staff)
42. mLB Chief Financial Clerk with mLB assistants.
43. mLB Chief Clerk with mLB and wLB assistant clerks & stenographers.
44. wLB Telephone Exchange Operator.

195 THE STAFF REQUIRED IMMEDIATELY AFTER OPENING. The list shows the full staff required at the beginning of the fourth year after opening. Appointments necessary immediately the scheme is approved are numbers 1, 2, 4, 7, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 18, 20, 22, 23, 29, 20, 28, 30, 31, and 9 mLB lecturers, 33, 35, 38, 41, 43. This staff will cover tuition of students whose training was interrupted by the war, and provide for a preliminary year's course for Engineering students and the first year of Mon teachers in Training, the work being carried on in temporary premises.

No. 2 will also design layout of College Power Plant and electrical apparatus.
Nos. 4, 12, 13: preliminary air service organisation.
No. 7: prepare Craft Courses with special relation to Malayan characteristics.
No. 10: tuition of partly trained students, design layout of telephony and radio labs, and radio studio.
No. 11: tuition of partly trained students.
No. 14: tuition of partly trained students, Preliminary Year Students and 1st Year Teachers.
No. 18: tuition of 1st Year Teachers in Training, and equipment of workshops.
No. 20: tuition of 1st Year Teachers in Training, partly trained students in mechanical engineering, installation of machine plant.
No. 22: tuition of partly trained students, 1st Year Teachers in Training, Preliminary Year Engineering Students.
No. 23: Preliminary Engineering Students, 1st Year Teachers in Training.
No. 24: a one year study appointment, e.g., six months special study in England, also learning Malay, followed by six months in Malaya studying local weaving.
No. 26: a one year study appointment as for No. 24.
No. 28: selected from Malayan Department of Education staff.
No. 31: tuition of partly trained students, 1st Year Teachers in Training, and Preliminary Year Engineering Students.
No. 33: preparation of detailed plans of the College and supervision of erection.
No. 35: layout and development of College grounds.
No. 37: to deal with, as and when [POSSIBLY MISSING].

===== Page 58 =====
Required, confidential matters between the Department of Education and Government. The person appointed being a European woman not in permanent employment who may be available and specially suitable, the post being non-pensionable and temporary. No. 41 to be responsible for catering and residential accommodation of partly trained students, 1st Year Students in Training, and 1st Year Teachers in Training. No. 43 responsible for all initial clerical work in connection with the temporary College.

196 THE STAFF REQUIRED IN THE SECOND YEAR. In the second year after commencement, the appointments should be Nos. 3, 5, 9, 19, 25, 27, 32, 36, 37, 40.

No. 3 Tuition of Mechanical Engineering Students.
No. 5 "Civil"
No. 9 "1st & 2nd Year Men Teachers & 1st Year Women Teachers."
No. 19 "Preliminary Year, 1st & 2nd Men Teachers & Railway students with No. 18."
No. 25 "1st Year WT & Craft Research."
No. 27 "1st Year Women Teachers and games organisation."
No. 32 Preparation of Library.
No. 36 Preparation and installation of generating plant, pumps etc.
No. 37 "machine plant."
No. 40 Commencement of duties to provide continuity.

197 THE STAFF REQUIRED IN THE THIRD YEAR. During the third year after opening, the appointments should be Nos. 6, 15, 16, 17, 21, 29, 34, 39, 42. Appointments being spread in this way over three years provides for full-time employment as student numbers increase and for smooth introduction of staff at the stage giving greatest efficiency. It provides economy pending the building up of endowment funds; allows long leave to be staggered and also for the provision of residential accommodation to be spread over three years.

198 COLLEGE ORGANISATION. The educational administration of the College should rest with the Principal and Professors who will constitute the Senate; while the control of the College should be vested in the Council. This should consist of fifteen members and the Principal. The constitution should provide for a President elected by the Council for a period of three years, with one or more Vice-Presidents. It is suggested that the office of President should not be a paid appointment, but that all members of the Council should, if they desire it, receive reimbursement for travelling and hotel accommodation which attendance in Council may require. This would be in accordance with the provision made for members of County Councils in England. In addition to members of Council nominated by Government, provision should be made for each State or Settlement contributing to the College to be represented. The function of the Council would be the furtherance of the aim and prestige of the College in every way. The constitution should provide for a meeting of the Council in each College term. In addition, eminent men should be invited to be patrons of the College. The system whereby the name of the State or Settlement or individual is attached to a professorship or lectureship or to a building should be encouraged, e.g., Johore Professor of English, Raffles College, for this stimulates interest.

199 PROPOSALS WHEREBY PUBLIC INTEREST MAY BE FOSTERED. The constitution should be framed to foster interest in the College on the part of Communities and individuals through a policy of discreet publicity, i.e., by the adoption of a rule that the names of all donors and benefactors will be (a) published each year in the College Calendar and (b) inscribed permanently upon such parts of the building or apparatus to which they have contributed. Further, a part of the College building, e.g., the assembly, examination and concert hall might be considered as the central feature of any scheme to commemorate those who died.

===== Page 59 =====
Because of the war in or around Malaya, it is suggested that in such event it should commemorate not only those in the Services (of all races), but others whose death may be directly attributed to the war. Adoption of this proposal would provide for the hall to be known as the 'Memorial Hall', being built by public subscription or built by Government and the sum subscribed by the public being used to endow Memorial scholarships. Individual commemoration might take the form of a book of names placed in the entrance foyer to the Hall. This book would contain a page for each day of the year, and each page bear the names of those that died on that particular date in either of the war years. A page would be turned each day, recording the anniversary of the death of each individual.

In addition, a plaque, fixed below the glass panel giving a view across the quadrangle through the far arch and continued down the green walk between an avenue of trees, might contain an inscription such as: "Those who in future years find happiness and knowledge within these walls, and look now at the view which opens before them, are asked to gaze for a moment down the vista of years and think of those of all races who by their sacrifice made those things possible." No memorial will be complete unless it provides opportunity for commemoration of not only those who lived in Malaya but also those who, but for the war, would not have any interest or knowledge of Malaya, e.g. the relatives of the personnel of the 'Prince of Wales' and the 'Repulse', of the British regiments in Malaya, of Australia and the Royal Air Force.

COORDINATION OF ALL EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES. The inter-relation of all forms of educational activity is a matter which has received considerable attention in pre-war Malayan schools. Even so, it is of such vital importance to the smooth running of the educational machine that still greater attention may be given to it, particularly as it is a definite factor in the promotion of true economy.

EACH TYPE OF SCHOOL SHOULD FIT INTO ITS PLACE. It will be recognised that it is not enough that the scope and work of each type of school should be known only to senior members of the Department of Education; the schools themselves must know the aim and scope of each other. There should be no suggestion of superiority among schools, but recognition that they are of equal importance to the community.

TRANSFER OF STUDENTS SHOULD BE FACILITATED. The work of all schools should be so planned that smooth transfer of a pupil from one type of school to another can be effected without wasteful repetition of work or any fumbling as to the direction in which the aptitude of a pupil should be bent. Visits by members of a school staff, not only to schools of the same type, but of all types should be encouraged, for it promotes a wider outlook and a better understanding of the part which they play in the general scheme.

CONTACT WITH PARENTS. Freshness of outlook combined with a progressive spirit is essential to a lively organisation. The slogan 'learn to live' might well be adopted as the guiding principle in all schools. The interest of the adult too, through 'open days' or 'parents' committees' should be fostered, while the schools aim at closer identification with life in general.

CONTACT WITH INDUSTRY. The broad ideal is to provide a better understanding, upon the part of industry, of the aim and purpose of education, and conversely to give the children in the schools not only a better idea of what lies before them in adult life, but how far their talents and aptitudes may best be directed towards a full and useful life. Since the schools fashion the material, it is obviously the duty of the schools to see that round pegs are fitted into round holes. Each Senior and Secondary school should possess one master or member of the staff responsible for 'careers'. There should be a central organisation which should be much more than an employment agency or registry; it should [POSSIBLY MISSING].

===== Page 60 =====
Be much more than an employment agency or registry; it should supply data to the schools on potential openings in various trades and branches of industry, and of the number which each trade can absorb. The central organisation should be represented upon all 'labour boards', and any body charged with assessment of labour values or the operation of 'fair wages' clauses.

205 ADVISORY COMMITTEE. Technical schools should have, as in the past, advisory committees of employers, whose collaboration on matters concerning the scope and type of training should be encouraged. It must be the aim of the schools to show it is a sound investment to employ intelligent, resourceful locally born and locally educated workers rather than illiterate unskilled immigrants.

206 TEAM WORK AS WELL AS INDIVIDUALITY. Again unless a large headquarters staff is to be maintained to make frequent visits to outlying schools and thus enthuse those members of the staff who are apt to lose heart or enthusiasm, then it is essential that a proper team spirit should be inculcated. The organisation and direction of the service should be such that all work equally to a common goal, but it must be sufficiently elastic in conception and operation to allow full scope to be given to individuality and personality without getting out of step with the basic organisation.

207 CENTRALISATION & DECENTRALISATION. The relative value of centralisation and decentralisation should be examined, for the relation of Government to State or Legislature in Malaya is not the same as that of the Board of Education to County Council in England. Some Government departments no doubt function better for centralisation and others from decentralisation, but education touching as it does the life of all in the country needs to extract the best from both. In short, education needs local thought, local interest, local independence, local enthusiasm and custom, but it also needs central authority from which basic principles and ideals of service should emanate. This will ensure sound education made live by local interest and enthusiasm.

208 EDUCATION THE PATTERN OF LIFE. Education must no longer be a thing of bits and pieces but co-ordinated and woven into a fabric in which every type of school not only merits its place in the pattern but is also related and tied to other types, so that the fabric is structurally sound and of good design. Only in this way will the fabric stand the wear of years, for it should not be forgotten that a properly conceived system of education may in truth direct the pattern of life for many children.

209 A DISTINCTIVE MALAYAN SPIRIT ENVISAGED. It cannot be too strongly emphasized that the whole success of education will lie in the spirit in which it is operated. To develop and foster a spirit characteristically Malayan is the most difficult and important factor to be faced, for while it must emanate from the central authority, it must permeate both teachers and children.

210 A COMMON PURPOSE & IDEAL. What actually constitutes Malayan spirit and culture is not easy to define for it is a state of mind, a consciousness of social unity, a common ideal and a common purpose towards social and national feeling.

211 THE AIM OF CIVILISATION REALISED. Its roots are in the people, and must grow until it becomes apparent in public life, and then trained and developed until it takes definite shape as a force moulding Malayan character, and with this development will come that which is the aim of civilisation - greater happiness.

212 SUMMARY & CONCLUSIONS. The proposals contained in the preceding paragraphs of this memorandum are for a reorganised permanent system of education and do not merely cover the period of change. There is no doubt that the immediate post-war

===== Page 61 =====
Period will be one of exceptional difficulty, for it will be necessary to provide not only for children within the age range normally in receipt of education, but also those whose schooling has been interrupted by the war. Both must be dealt with adequately and reconciled with the reorganised system of education to which many of the younger children will later pass. An added difficulty will be the education of those children who have suffered not so much from a gap in their education but from indifferent teaching and distorted ideology during their most formative years.

213 TEMPORARY EXPEDIENTS. The needs of all these children are such that no time must be lost in providing them with as much as possible as quickly as possible. It would appear that the logical solution to this problem is the creation of a temporary system of education, e.g., making use of morning and afternoon schools, so that shortage of accommodation may be addressed without loss of time or recourse to the erection of temporary accommodation.

214 A TEMPORARY ORGANISATION. In order that smooth development of the reorganised or new permanent system of education should not be hindered or negatived by the provision which must be made for the children requiring schooling during immediate post-war years, the temporary organisation should on no account be allowed to become permanent. It should be planned on short-term lines with definite intention of termination as soon as the special conditions for which it is created have been met. It should be concerned only with immediate problems and have no part in the planning or development of the permanent structure.

215 COST TO BE SPECIAL EXPENDITURE. From the point of view of finance, this temporary organisation might be regarded as special expenditure occasioned by the war and therefore extra or additional to or apart from normal peacetime educational expenditure. Without some such special arrangement as this, the permanent structure will not flourish, for funds necessary to proper growth will be used up by the temporary organisation. The proposed temporary organisation offers another advantage in that it will absorb and use up the services of those whose remaining years are insufficient or whose experience is of the type not suitable for the new organisation, but whose seniority might otherwise require their services to be utilised. The permanent organisation will require those whose experience, and those whose years of service which remain, is sufficient to provide contribution of their true quota and to gain maturity as the new organisation matures.

216 TEMPORARY ACCOMMODATION. Detailed consideration has been given to the use to which existing buildings should be put, and of the special trades in which training should be given in technical schools situated in various parts of the country. Limitation of space, however, together with the general nature of this memorandum, suggests that one illustration will suffice, e.g., the premises formerly used by the Technical College will probably not be available. If available, they should be used for a temporary English school, and it is suggested that the Department of Education should release Batu Road School and also the Trade School buildings for the temporary Technical College.

217 INTER-RELATION IS VITAL. It has been the aim in this memorandum to demonstrate the inter-relation of not only primary, secondary and technical education but also full-time higher technical, part-time adult and leisure education, together with native crafts and industry; all being part of the sum which totals up the life of the community. This memorandum has been written in the form of a continuous narrative, rather than sub-division into sections or chapters, in order to emphasize this, being designed to illustrate the fundamental importance of each proposal, not only in itself, but as part of a balanced whole. Conversely,

===== Page 62 =====
If any part or detailed proposal proves unacceptable, then removal will entail modification or alteration of the remainder in order to again produce balance. It will follow that acceptance of general principles will provide approval of detailed enlargement and thus decide the order in which matters should be considered. The summary is drafted to indicate, through the use of similar numerical key, matters of parallel importance, while the alphabetical key indicates order.

SUMMARY. It is proposed that: Education in Malaya should be reorganised upon lines in keeping with the needs of the country and in keeping with post-war conditions, with a long term policy.

1(a) Temporary and permanent organisations should be set up.
1(b) Post-war education should provide for compulsory free vernacular education for all as soon as conditions permit.
1(c) The Technical College should be constituted as a grant-in-aid institution.
1(d) Technical schools and techni-factories should be established to provide the practical bias needed, as well as providing the 'hard core' of skilled employment.
1(e) Technical High schools should replace English schools, giving academic education, up to 50% of the pre-war available places.
1(f) Crafts should be stimulated through proper organisation and direction.
1(g) A properly co-ordinated local air-service should be developed.
1(h) The interest of the general public in education should be stimulated.
1(k) The design of educational buildings should be undertaken by the School of Architecture of the Technical College.
2(a) A Director of Education for the temporary organisation should be appointed, with a deputy to become Director of the permanent organisation.
2(b) The training of Teachers for Senior vernacular schools and for practical subjects in other schools should be carried out in the Technical College.
2(c) i. The Technical College should provide for the student number specified in the memorandum and provision made accordingly, ii. sufficient area of ground for the needs of a modern residential technical college be acquired as soon as possible.
2(b,c,d) An officer to direct the development of practical and technical education be appointed.
2(d) Temporary premises for the first techni-factory be acquired and the Superintendent of Malacca Trade School be appointed to superintend it.
2(e) European teaching personnel should hold British qualifications.
3(b) A plan for area development of senior schools, based upon number of teachers in training be drawn up.
3(c) Temporary premises should be secured for the Technical College.
3(e) A review of English schools be made, and from this bifurcation into Technical High schools and English (academic) schools be planned.
3(f) An organisation to be known as Malayan Craft Developments, with central headquarters, be set up.
3(g) The Professor of Aeronautics be Director of Civil Aviation.
3(h) A publicity campaign be undertaken, inviting support for the Technical College, either through educational benefactions or as part of a war memorial scheme.
3(k) An assistant architect, to draft detailed plans of the Technical College and other educational buildings, be appointed.
4(c) Appointment of staff of the Technical College, on approved salary scales as detailed for the first year, be made.
4(f) Application to be made for a grant from Imperial funds, towards Craft research and development.
5 Equipment and materials, necessary for the development of a scheme of practical and technical education, should be purchased from surplus war stocks and controlled by a central stores.
5(c) Rapid development of lay-out of College grounds (partly as an employment project).

===== Page 63 =====
5(d) Technifactories catering for new trades and industries with specialist direction should be developed.

5(g) Survey and commission of selected aerodromes and emergency landing fields should be made.

5(h) Appropriate literature should be published, and approach through personal contact with manufacturers should be made, so that advances by Government may be kept to a minimum.

A PRECIS OF THE MEMORANDUM ON THE RE-ORGANISATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF EDUCATION.

Para. 1. The stream of world progress cannot be dammed.

2. Real progress depends upon the happiness of the individual, i.e., the individual being able to live a whole life.

3. To make this possible, men must build in the present for the future.

4. Their aim must be positive (peace producing), not negative (war-producing).

5. Education can make its contribution by ensuring happiness to the individual through education that is a preparation for living.

6. To do this, it must possess fluidity and it must be able to pursue its objective unaffected by political or economic fluctuations.

7. The rate and nature of its progress must depend upon the stage reached by the race. As far as British Colonies are concerned it is declared policy that education must provide 'equal opportunities for all, irrespective of race, colour or creed.'

8. In Colonies that have suffered great losses, education can help to provide compensation for what can never be made good in terms of money or materials.

9. How can this be done?

10. We must get away from abstract idealism and provide a practical solution and assessment, e.g., conditions among men (a state of mind that is the product of education) ensuring peace for at least forty years.

11. This state of mind can be produced only by education properly planned and supervised with the use of suitable labour and materials.

12. No pre-war foundations should be used unless they are of proved merit.

13. Thus an essential preliminary is a thorough survey of pre-war conditions.

14. We must be on guard against a possible post-war inertia or pessimism.

15. The horror and tragedy of the past must not blind us to the opportunity of the present.

16. This opportunity, as far as Malaya is concerned, depends upon formulating proposals for effective re-organisation.

17. Pre-war vernacular education is first considered (see explanatory chart).

18. All Malay boys (some girls) - a four year course; Indian children on estates - some vernacular education, limited on account of small grants and for other reasons; Chinese children - dependent on private schools some of which qualify for grants.

19. Probably only fifty per cent of the Chinese school population receive education, and that was of varying quality. The Malays got only a four year course but that was admittedly in advance of other colonies and the Netherlands East Indies.

20. Thus there was under-capitalisation of the mental content of the country.

21. Vernacular education exerts vital political and economic influence, and if compulsory would, e.g., check exploitation of child labour, evils connected with girls and young women, the spread of subversive influences through poor types of schools. A semi-illiterate or illiterate labour force always provides ideal material for political agitators.

===== Page 64 =====
Para. 22. Increase in the familiar "English" (academic-type) education would only add to the "white collar" brigade.

23. Moreover, as English is not the mother tongue (less than 20% of the pupils in the present English schools hear English in their homes), teaching through that medium encourages mechanical rote work.

24. The Chinese, Malays, and Indians are crying out for more education and we should find a type of education suitable to their needs.

25. This means education coordinated to their environment and civic responsibilities.

26. The aim should be to train, as far as possible, the right number of men for the vacancies available—and yet to provide a system of education that will make men adaptable even should there prove to be insufficient vacancies.

27. Thus a sound system of vernacular education should mean a happy and tolerant community.

28. It will mean equal opportunity for all.

29. The introduction of general compulsory vernacular education must be gradual: apart from financial considerations, it will take time to train the teachers required.

30. The first step would be to transform existing vernacular schools into Senior and Junior departments. The teachers would be trained and paid by Government.

31. The spread of the system will depend upon the number of teachers trained. A start would be made with the senior school.

32. Then the junior school would be reorganized and extended.

33. The primary vernacular school should have the same aim as the primary English school (to produce men and women "of good report").

34. To realize this aim, there must be an excellent teaching staff.

35. Next, we turn to education through the medium of English, in the aided and Government English schools and the technical and technical high schools.

36. The products of the English schools have in the past gone into "white collar" jobs and the supply has been greatly in excess of demand.

37. The problem is not peculiar to Malaya and is capable of the same treatment as elsewhere—namely by reorganizing the schools to include practical subjects in the curriculum; and to develop and increase technical schools and to have technical high schools.

38. Thus the reorganization would include: (1) junior and senior vernacular schools (corresponding to the junior and senior schools in England): the boys from the senior school who do not enter the technical schools going into semi-skilled or unskilled occupations; (2) junior and senior English schools—into those will go (a) the pupils gaining scholarships from the junior vernacular schools, (b) those reaching a sufficiently high standard in the junior vernacular schools to qualify for transfer as paying pupils, (c) those who speak English in the home (for whom English may be regarded as a vernacular); (3) technical schools (particularly the techni-factories, see para. 59 below) drawing from the senior vernacular school and from the senior English school (the rest of whose pupils either leave school or qualify for (4) or (5) below)—they will train the skilled tradesmen or artisans (like the present trade schools); (4) technical high schools, a preparation for the technical college and also for posts in industry and trade requiring training of this type but not the full professional qualification of the technician; (5) secondary schools, providing an academic course leading to clerical and commercial posts and to Raffles College and the College of Medicine.

39. This reorganization was under consideration before the war and can now be introduced as far as the English schools are concerned by recruiting for the existing vacancies in the European staff, men with the necessary qualifications.

40. It is suggested that the English schools could have one half continuing as "secondary schools" and one half transformed into "technical high schools."

===== Page 65 =====
Para 41. It should be a condition of appointment to European posts in aided as well as government schools that specified British qualifications are held, for only so can there be uniform standards.

42. Technical education must be related to general education, to the requirements of industry and to national well-being.

43. In place of the former worship of particular examinations (e.g. school certificate or matriculation) there must be a recognition of the value of all types of education.

44. The aim must be to train for particular work and also to provide the mental equipment for a full and useful life.

45. Technical education cannot be something apart; its roots must be in the junior and senior schools, its stem in the technical school and the technical college, and its fruit in the adult life of the individual. There must be a survey to assess openings in any particular trade to decide the numbers to be trained for it.

46. Besides surveying existing conditions, new openings must also be explored.

47. After the war, the labour problems must be faced by the community and not left to private enterprise.

48. This does not mean that the community (i.e., the Government) will be the sole employer but that it must train the worker and ensure fair wage treatment for them.

49. The first step in the training will be giving a practical bias to the curriculum of all schools.

50. There will need to be reconstruction of Malaya's economic life.

51. There will be experts to advise on the rehabilitation of tin and rubber but there will be numerous small industries requiring special help.

52. While educational reconstruction must proceed apace there should be no rush likely to cause mistakes, e.g., provision of temporary buildings both an eyesore and unserviceable.

53. Layout and siting of buildings required to be considered in the light of future needs.

54. Subject to those considerations, the technical schools must be reestablished as quickly as possible.

55. The scope of the five pre-war schools is indicated.

56. These schools were purely vocational but filled a need and their results were laudable.

57. In 1940 the Cabinet-making school was drastically reorganised.

58. The purpose of the reorganisation was to make it possible for the provision of master-craftsmen to be the ultimate objective. It was necessary to provide initial employment of trainees since the Chinese guilds close the door of apprenticeship to them.

59. The reorganisation provided a 3-year course of instruction followed by five years work in a factory for production (deduction from wages plus a Government contribution during the five years giving small capital to those qualifying and not wishing to continue in the factory). The factory was to be for production of furniture at competitive prices and was to be under the direction of the Superintendent of the school.

60. The scheme of training was devised to give experience in every branch of the trade.

61. The Superintendent appointed (a highly skilled craftsman and fully conversant with local conditions) made his influence felt in three months and in the following nine months was able to show that the scheme was sound.

62. The success of the pre-war trade schools must not blind us to their defects: purely vocational training must give way to technical education, i.e., general education, to ensure that the artisan will be intelligent and resourceful, must be added.

===== Page 66 =====
Para 63. Efforts must not be confined just to one or two trades.

64. Special conditions caused by the war must be faced, e.g. because large numbers of mechanics were trained for the Services there will for some time be a surplus of former trade school trainees.

65. The conversion of the former four automobile engineering trade schools into modern technical schools can be arranged without difficulty as it happens that all four posts of Chief Instructors will be vacant.

66. It should be emphasized that to meet the position created by the surplus of mechanics it is not proposed to reduce the number of trainees in the schools but to divert them to other trades in which there are openings.

67. Trades must also be developed according to the needs of the community.

68. Where there are obstacles to apprenticeship after training (e.g. guilds etc.), technifactories will be set up for the trade concerned.

69. The first techni-factory proposed is for furniture making, a vital post-war trade. The Superintendent mentioned in paragraph 61 above is available to take charge.

70. Because of the large demands for this work and because the first techni-factory will be the nursery for the later ones, a staff of four to six Europeans (craftsmen) should be appointed.

71. The post-war reconstruction must include a large building programme and there should be a technical school for building trades. (To encourage employment of locally trained men in these trades, in all Government and municipal contracts there should be a fair wage clause and a clause requiring employment of a proportion of locally trained men.)

72. There should also be a technical school (and if necessary technifactories) in (a) leather trades (b) tailoring (c) office work (d) domestic service (cook-boys and cook-amahs).

73. There should also be research into other possible occupations for which boys should be prepared (e.g. by using material formerly waste such as pineapple leaf - for fibre - and swamp timber). There should also be research into local possibilities of trades such as plastics brought into being by modern conditions.

74. Then too there are such trades as the fabrication of glassware, earthenware and china utensils.

75. These examples serve to show the wide field to be explored.

76. Development of Crafts. The development must not depend on chance tourist traffic or on the spare time help of a few enthusiasts.

77. Malayan crafts have suffered from under-capitalization and lack of organised marketing facilities. (This is illustrated by reference to the handloom silk weaving of Trenggamu and Kelantan.)

78. The market (about 500,000 yards a year) is good but there is absence of organisation.

79. The problem is (1) to eliminate the middleman to ensure a better return to the weaver, (2) to purchase yarn in bulk, (3) to ensure direction, (4) to get sufficient capital, (5) to ensure good quality of production, (6) to extend the market, (7) to organise the marketing. The aim should be to make the craft a spare time activity of many (to supplement and not interfere with normal means of livelihood) rather than to concentrate the work in the hands of a few.

80. A Malayan Craft Research Institute for all crafts could (to take this craft as an example) purchase the silk yarn in bulk and arrange bulk dyeing etc. Even in pre-war days the total amount of silk bought in odd katies was $12,000 per year.

81. The work that could be done by the Institute is indicated.

82. A Government loan of $5,000 rising to $50,000 would be required - not as a subsidy but as a loan until the concern could finance itself (i.e. when profits and turnover increased).

83. The payment to the worker would amount to 10% to 15% increase in his monthly income (the restriction would prevent scamped work or interference with normal occupations and economic life of the country).

84. While the former local market (500,000 yards a year) was good there would be an increase with better dye and better finish.

===== Page 67 =====
85. The British and American markets would be systematically wooed and developed.

86. While economic factors must be considered, a Malayan character and spirit in the craft must be fostered. The Institute will encourage good craftsmanship and initiate new designs.

87. The research workers at the Institute will be the designers.

88. The Institute will be Malayan-wide in scope, e.g., cloth may be woven in Kelantan and Trengganu, block or screen printed in Kedah, and may become an original production by embroidery in Negri Sembilan.

89. Crafts known to be possible at present are handloom weaving in conjunction with block and screen printing, batik, embroidery, pandanus mats, etc., Port Dickson hats, silverwork, basketry, woodwork, toymaking, pottery, glassware.

90. The schools will also help through craft teachers trained at the Technical College—the Craft Research Institute being a section of the College.

91. This scheme for encouraging and developing local crafts has the support of Europeans who have shown an interest in fostering Malayan crafts in the past. It is the type of scheme deserving of a special grant under the conditions prescribed by the Imperial Government just before the war reached Malaya.

92. The Technical College. This can make so important a contribution to the well-being of Malaya that it should be restarted early.

93. An early start is necessary because (a) the course for technical subordinates is for 3 or 4 years, (b) the declared policy of giving Asiatics an opportunity to qualify for higher qualification requires speedy post-war implementation.

94. But we must look beyond the immediate post-war needs and consider the future in general as well.

95. The MoLean Commission envisaged Raffles College, the College of Medicine, and the Technical College as constituent parts, in a few years' time, of a University College. But the aim at present must be to produce 200 graduates a year at a satisfactory standard of attainment rather than a handful to honours degree standard. The degree is a goal for, say, 10 years hence. For the three Colleges to be constituent parts involves equal status and similar administration and control. But Raffles College (like colleges in England) enjoys independence and freedom while the Technical College (like the College of Medicine) is Government controlled and financed.

96. The restarting of the Technical College would be a favourable opportunity for putting it on the same basis as Raffles College.

97. This would involve basic change as will be shown.

98. The Technical College grew out of classes started by the Public Works Department. Then the Technical School was formed and placed under the Department of Education.

99. In 1939, the Bridges Committee reported that its enrolment would ultimately reach 230 and recommended acquisition of a site regarded as adequate for a school with that enrolment.

100. The School Advisory Committee in 1940 made a comprehensive survey of the needs of Government and municipal departments and private industry. It ascertained that, on a conservative estimate, 150-160 students a year would be required for Government departments alone.

101. Thus, the enrolment of 230 was far too small and the site (which had been obtained as recommended) totally inadequate for the future needs of the College. Fortunately, suitable additional land adjoins the site and this land should be acquired at once.

102. The duration of the course will decide the total enrolment. The Advisory Committee favoured a 4-year rather than the present 3-year course, the additional year to be a preliminary course in English, mathematics, and science with workshop practice, after which the branch of engineering for specialization could be selected. This would be a step towards raising the College courses to a pass degree standard.

===== Page 68 =====
103. Private industry can absorb up to 50 students a year—thus the total enrolment (all years, students for private and public employment) would be a maximum of 800.

104. At present the Technical College selects only the private students. The students for Government Departments are selected by the departments and are assured of work in these departments. Moreover, until recently rigid educational minimum standards of admission were not required.

105. The students selected by the departments were granted free tuition, a maintenance grant of thirty to fifty dollars a month and, subject to qualifying, certain employment. Raffles College and the College of Medicine wisely discarded this system, instead awarding scholarships depending mainly on School Certificate results. Yet even though 90% of the Technical College students are on the free list, Raffles College and the College of Medicine have the pick of the students though this is also in part due to the inadequate staff and equipment of the Technical College, the method of selection already explained, and the poor financial prospects of qualified technical students in Malaya.

106. As an independent aided institution, then instead of 150 departmental studentships, there would be:
- 100 "open" one year scholarships (endowed by Government)
- 25 "Malay" one year scholarships for the Unfederated States
- 75 places reserved for fee paying private students.

On the results of the 1st Year Examination there would be:
- 80 three-year scholarships (tuition and maintenance) allocated to the College departments proportionately to the employment requirements and prospects
- 20 exhibitions providing tuition only
- 10 providing three-quarter tuition fees.

There would also be a fund from which promising students unexpectedly deprived of support during their Course could be helped. The Unfederated States scholarships would extend for the whole four years subject to the holders reaching a prescribed minimum standard each year. Any other 1st Year Scholars who failed to qualify for three-year scholarships etc., would be permitted to remain at the College as fee paying students subject to the same conditions of reaching the prescribed minimum standard.

107. The College lists (order of merit) would be available (confidentially) after graduation for government departments to assist in the selection for their vacancies.

108. The financial implications of the above proposals are indicated, showing a saving to Government of $132,750 on a three year and $166,475 on a four year Course.

109. If the Technical College becomes an independent aided institution it is likely to receive generous support from industry and from the general public.

110. The College will be an attractive project to the community because of the facilities it will grant, because it is to be part of a projected University College of Malaya and because of the opportunities it will open to the youth of Malaya.

111. There will need to be a vigorous campaign by press, radio and personal approach, by stimulating inter-State and inter-community rivalry, and by a variety of other inducements.

112. Thus while Government will have to meet or guarantee the capital cost of buildings, it is expected that there will be generous benefactions.

113. An independent College can invite help and is likely to get gifts of equipment and apparatus from industry, partly on the ground of mutual benefit (e.g., helps the donor firm and also attracts visitors to the College).

114. A scheme is outlined whereby cost of plant and apparatus instead of being a capital charge may be spread over a period of years.

115. The details of the scheme are explained.

116. The advantages to the manufacturer are indicated.

===== Page 69 =====
117. The advantages to the technical (trade) schools are given.
118. And also to the Technical College.
119. Efforts should be made to obtain some of the large surplus of machine plant available after the war.
120. The inclusion of a training department for teachers in the Technical College will help to ensure fuller use of the equipment available.
121. Thus a strong case has been made out for an efficient and properly constituted Technical College.
122. The aim must be to get the full benefit of modern technical education added to a first-hand knowledge of Malaya.
123. Malaya, with its population of 5 to 8 millions and a rising birthrate, has only Raffles College, the College of Medicine, the Technical College, and the School of Agriculture (in part) providing education beyond that of the average secondary school in England.
124. The need for a new and properly equipped Technical College was recognized sixteen years ago—yet the accommodation has been hopeless.
125. Its hostel is small and unsuitable.
126. The College equipment is deplorable.
127. It has for 220 students a staff of only 9 (2 Europeans) as against 16 Europeans and several Asiatic lecturers or demonstrators for about the same number of students at Raffles College.
128. Its curriculum is purely vocational, lacking the broader educational aims of the modern technical college.
129. Yet these are essential if the College is to produce men of character and integrity as well as technicians.
130. These aims require the College to be residential and the new site must be adequate for this purpose as well, as for an institution aiming at university status (the McLean Commission touched specially on the question of adequate sites).
131. The site plan (attached) shows the site acquired and the adjoining land that should be acquired in addition.
132. The layout (attached) shows proper orientation in accordance with Malayan conditions.
133. Full recreational facilities are necessary, and indicated.
134. The hostels are designed to provide efficient community living.
135. The layout of the staff houses fits into "garden city" planning.
136. The main College building and the road and paths fit into the same general scheme.
137. In planning the building, the timetable and the requirements of the various subjects have been fully considered.
138. Yet while these vital considerations have been kept fully in view, the aesthetic aspect has been taken into account.
139. The sketch plan (attached) shows lecture rooms and laboratories grouped to ensure minimum movement between classes and minimum interference by noise of machines and possesses all the advantages of the most recently planned colleges in England.
140. Since the teaching is through the medium of a foreign tongue (English), particular importance is given in addition to the lending and reference library to the non-technical general library adjoining the room of the Senior Tutor in English.
141. The lending technical library (on a "county library" plan) will be for graduates, and for the general public genuinely anxious to study, as well as for undergraduates.
142. The modern technical college must also help adult education generally, and part-time students attending special evening or vacation courses should be eligible for associate membership of the College Union.
143. The College buildings and equipment will be at the fullest possible disposal of the community (public lectures, public social-cultural activities, amateur dramatics, etc.).

===== Page 70 =====
144. There will be an Information Bureau open to all studying anywhere in Malaya.

145. Details of the scope of the Bureau, which should be self-supporting, are given.

146. As part of its adult education activities, the College should organise public lectures and study groups, and regular broadcasts on technical and other subjects.

147. The air has become of vital importance to technical development and so a Department of Aeronautics is included in the College.

148. In a country like Malaya a good local air service should be a sound economic proposition.

149. The war has provided Malaya with many airfields and a trained corps of local mechanics.

150. A good air service makes it possible for experienced officers to have a wide field of service.

151. A scheme for civil aviation with a director who would also hold the chair of aeronautical engineering is briefly indicated.

152. A department of Architecture is also suggested for incorporation as the College develops.

153. This will enable special study of Malayan conditions governing the planning of buildings.

154. Some of these conditions (especially the heat) are mentioned.

155. Other special conditions (humidity, torrential downpour) are mentioned.

156. The need for research into all this is stressed.

157. This will lead to the evolution of a Malayan style - sound economically and pleasing aesthetically.

158. Thus the department though not large will exercise a wide influence.

159. In England the architect's departments of local authorities have sub-departments for various branches (e.g. schools and hospitals).

160. In the same way in Malayan schools plans might be undertaken by a special branch which could be in part of the College Department of Architecture, ensuring the fullest use of the College Staff.

161. A department of Arts and Crafts is commonly found in technical colleges in England.

162. There are obvious advantages in having the inter-related engineering and art and craft studies in one College.

163. The Arts and Crafts department should be linked with developments in the country, particularly through the training of teachers for the schools.

164. Training of Teachers in Arts and Crafts. The Board of Education stresses the importance of handicrafts in schools, as developing resource, confidence, imagination and other character-making qualities.

165. The success of the proposed senior vernacular schools will depend largely upon the quality of the teachers.

166. The teachers trained in the first ten years will exercise a great influence for they will be the potential heads of the first senior schools.

167. England provides examples (e.g. Loughborough College) of the advantage of having in the technical college a training department for teachers of practical subjects.

168. As all types (Chinese, Malay, Indian, Eurasian) of vernacular schools have to be supplied, 100 men teachers a year will be required, and with a three year course this will mean a total enrolment of 300. This 300 will be additional to the 800 engineering students (para. 103 above). The total of 1100 represents the approximate maximum enrolment for efficiency, any further increase involving a second technical college elsewhere in the Peninsula.

===== Page 71 =====
169. English, to provide a unifying factor and a Malayan outlook, is proposed as a subject in all vernacular schools in the third year (on educational grounds for the first two years all teaching being in the mother tongue). To avoid the racial segregation involved in a purely vernacular school system, the craft and the English classes will be "mixed" (i.e., drawn from all the vernacular schools). As specialist teachers will be required for crafts, it will be economy to train the same teacher to take English.

170. Practical activities include all coordinated muscular activity (physical training, woodwork, metal-work, basketry, drawing, bookcrafts, etc.). The training course would include these and English, Mathematics, General Science, Technology of Tools and Materials, Pedagogy, and Method. Students will select subjects for specialization.

171. Girls as well as boys must be considered in any comprehensive educational scheme, particularly in Malaya where girls have been neglected. Fifty women teachers a year (150 for the three-year course) will be trained. Their crafts (teaching accommodation on the ground floor of the Women's Hostel) will be cookery, housewifery, needlework, embroidery, etc.; block and screen printing, weaving, batik work, craft design, and the general subjects will be taken in the College or the Institute of Craft Research. Their physical training and organized games will be taken in the grounds of the Women's Hostel.

172. Financial Aspects of Re-organisation. While the proposals involve heavy financial commitment, it must be remembered that they provide for much more than before and that the technifactories and craft developments will be ultimately self-supporting.

173. The proposals provide practical and economic solutions to definite problems.

174. It is essential that there should be a long-term policy (e.g., ten years) rather than a year-to-year programme varying in expenditure according to the state of industry.

175. This is particularly desirable with capital expenditure in order to ensure reaching a goal by a fixed time.

176. The expenditure on education should bear some relationship to the expenditure on other services, and to the expenditure on education in other countries and colonies. Our expenditure—6% of total expenditure—compares unfavourably with the expenditure on, e.g., police and medical services in Malaya and on education in other colonies (averaging 10% to 15%).

177. The reason for increase in educational expenditure (e.g., increase in numbers receiving education, special developments) should always be stated.

178. The change from academic to practical education involves increase in expenditure on account of equipment, not on account of more highly paid staff.

179. This applies to the technical schools also, though for the technifactories, European assistants (as in the existing trade schools) will be required in the first place but they should be regarded as offset against factory revenue.

180. The technical high schools will be staffed like the parallel English secondary schools, the European staff being obtained by filling a proportion of the vacancies in the Departmental European personnel (caused by the war or retirement), by men with suitable qualifications for work in these schools.

181. Thus the scale of salaries for the European staff of the technical schools will be the same as for other European masters because the qualifications required are parallel.

===== Page 72 =====
182. The scale of salaries for the local staff should depend, as they do in England, on the type of school to which they are appointed, namely Primary, Senior, or Secondary schools.

183. (1) Primary - (a) Vernacular, as for the Malay schools (time scale $30 to $100 a month) (b) English, the scale proposed for products of the Training Classes employed in Government English Afternoon Schools - ($50 - $150 a month). (2) Senior - (a) Vernacular trained as for the Malay schools (b) Raffles College, Technical College, (Normal trained while employed) the pre-war Normal Class scheme ($130 - $300 time scale a month). (3) Secondary - pre-war Raffles College scheme, the time scale ($155 - $300 a month). All these salary schemes to retain their pre-war super-scale and allowances.

184. Purchase of equipment and apparatus in bulk by central departmental store will lead to economy and efficiency (see para. 160 above, for economy in building).

185. Any revenue produced by schools should go towards education (education research etc.) not to Government funds.

186. Economy also demands that promising students should be marked out for promotion.

187. Personnel of New Organisation. It must include men of vision and experience.

188. The experience must be wide. Thus the European staff though small must consist of men of exceptional calibre and with personality and character.

189. This will limit choice; men with experience will not leave a sure career for an uncertain future. Moreover, though the salary scales provide reasonable emoluments for the young man on the threshold of a career, its super-scale posts are worth at the most no more than parallel posts in England.

190. With a small staff, there will be no room for "passengers".

191. All this serves to emphasize the importance of selection and of attractive conditions of service.

192. As progress is made, these problems must be faced. The technical high schools cannot begin until three years after the technical college training has begun. The training need not await new buildings. The College staff should be selected and begin (in temporary buildings) with this training while at the same time making preparations for the launching of the new college.

193. The college tutorial staff should be appointed to the College and not to specific departments within the College. A scheme is outlined showing how each member of the staff would be used as college-wide (rather than as departmentally-restricted) as possible.

194. The total tutorial staff for the 4 year course in engineering and the 3 year teacher training course would be:
- European Principal 1
- European Professors 9
- European Lecturers (men) 13
- European Lecturers (women) 6
- Locally Born Senior Lecturer (man) 1
- Locally Born Lecturers (Men and Women) 58

In addition, an appropriate number of administrative and domestic staff will be required.

195. Those who will be wanted at once are: The Principal, 4 Professors (Electrical Engineering, Aeronautical Engineering, Arts & Crafts, and English), 9 European Men Lecturers (for Telephony and Radio Engineering, Surveying, Aircraft Construction, Aircraft Navigation, English, Woodwork, Metalwork, Physical Training, General Science, Gardening), 3 European Women Lecturers (Needlework, Housewifery, Weaving), 11 Locally born (Men).

===== Page 73 =====
Lecturers (various Engineering branches) and certain of the administrative and domestic staff. The tutorial staff will be responsible for the intensive training of students whose course was interrupted by the war and will provide the 1st Year Course for the new students (Engineering students and teachers in training). Details of how each of the staff will be used are given.

The appointments required in the second year are given.

And those for the third year.

College Organization -
(a) Educational administration.
Principal and Professors forming the Senate.

(b) General direction and control
Council - 15 members and the Principal with a President elected by the Council for three years (no remuneration, but travelling and hotel expenses) and one or more Vice-Presidents similarly elected. Each contributing State or Settlement to be represented. Eminent citizens eligible to be invited to be Patrons. The name of a State or Settlement or generous individual donor may be attached to a professorship, lectureship, or building.

Various proposals to foster interest in the College are discussed (e.g., to make the Technical College a Malayan War Memorial).

Coordination of all educational activities. The inter-relation of all parts of the educational machine has been recognised in Malaya but needs to be further stressed and understood also by the schools themselves.

Each type of school should fit into its place.

Transfers from one type of school to another should be easy.

There should be close contact between school and the general public.

And also with industry - through career masters and employment bureau and by representation on any labour boards.

There should be advisory committees of employers for every technical school.

There should be teamwork but without restriction of individual initiative.

While (for basic principles) education requires central direction (centralization), it is also most desirable to foster local interest and local independence (decentralization).

Education will decide the pattern of life for most children - that is why Coordination is so important.

A distinctive Malayan spirit and outlook must be created.

This can come only from a common purpose and ideal.

So shall we realize the aim of civilization and education as first set out (paras. (1) and (2) above) - the happiness of mankind.

Summary and Conclusions. A permanent system of education has been outlined but a temporary system for post-war conditions (for those whose education has been interrupted or delayed) will also be necessary.

Various temporary expedients must be employed for the temporary system (e.g., two-shift schools, temporary accommodation).

A temporary organization must be set up.

The cost should be regarded as special war expenditure, apart from normal peacetime expenditure. As a special measure, the services of those normally debarred by age or marriage should be utilized.

Special temporary accommodation arrangements must be made (e.g., the Technical College to be temporarily accommodated in Batu Road School and the Trade school).

In the proposals set out in this Memorandum, the inter-relation of all parts of the educational machine has been taken into account - modification or excision of any proposal will involve general recasting to get the necessary balance.

===== Page 74 =====
ADDENDUM.

Had the writer of this memorandum been cognizant of the valuable contribution to modern educational thought of Professor Clarke and Dr. Lowe, contained in "Education and Social Change" and "The Universities in Transformation" respectively, much which is only tentatively postulated as a desirable approach to a specific problem of educational reorganisation would have been stated with greater cogency, for definition of basic principles by writers of such eminence in the field of education gives a degree of authority to proposals which the writer, cut off from contemporary thought and active participation in the work of education, must of necessity lack. This separation from the world of education is not, however, without value, for it enabled a detached and critical analysis of pre-war education and provided time in which to formulate a reasonable synthesis "to preserve and enhance social cohesion and to generate the social power which the necessities of a changed order will call for."

An epoch has ended and "the old security has gone and the demands to be met, involving as they do not only adjustment to far-reaching technical change but comprehensive 'extra national' adjustment to the whole world which is becoming one in transforming our ideas of national sovereignty and Empire alike, will call for changes in social relationships." If this be true of England and Europe it is even more true of a country like Malaya, where total disruption of the "old order" necessitates and indeed, gives golden opportunity for inauguration of a new way.

While it may be momentarily damping to discover that which was believed to be an original enunciation of basic principles, applied to the specific problem of education in Malaya, is only original in its application, yet reflection indicates that the proposals in the memorandum, if lacking in originality of principle, are strengthened in application, for the theme running through both the introduction and the body of the memorandum is clearly in harmony with the views of Professor Clarke - "the hope of a genuine common culture at a reasonably high level is more likely to be realized through the senior schools, the technical schools and diverse facilities for adult education, than by a secondary school frustrated from one side by its out-of-date and out-of-place apeing of the old 'privileged' tradition, and from another side by parental ambition which sees in the 'ladder' steps not to Parnassus but to a secure job - and with - 'when we contemplate the pressing problem of an effective relating of techniques and technicians to the real needs of a modern society through the medium of government, we catch a glimpse of the task which lies before the universities.'"

Again too, there is relevancy between the proposals in the memorandum for establishing technical high schools and the need for the technical high school to be "devoted to its peculiar significant task of the humanising of techniques, a pioneer in the work of incorporating new technical elements, with all their implications, into a developing common culture"; also between the plea for developing the Senior school, the technical school, the techni-factory school, and "we should begin our planning with the essential problem of adolescence and adapt the earlier stages of education to the form of provision we choose for the later stage" and also "unification of the system in the form of a common 'end-on' principle providing for equal access to suitable forms of education qualified by certain essential guarantees of freedom."

===== Page 75 =====
The proposal that modern practical and technical education should be the means whereby a Malayan spirit and consciousness through development of personality and integrity should be created is, in effect, the "attainment of a sufficiently high level of acquirement to participate with mutual advantage in the common culture: command of techniques, both those which are general to the community and those which are special for the individual vocation; knowledge of the nature and sources of power in the modern world (a great matter this; touching much of science, mathematics and geography as well as history and "civics"); insight into the motives and forces of individual and community action, together with trained moral perception, and integration of all that is learnt into the stable volitional structure we call "Character";" which Professor Clarke gives as some of the objectives that have to be striven for.

That the period ahead of us will be one of radical social change is undoubted, and time alone will show how far the firmly established English tradition will readjust itself to a new outlook. The roots of English tradition are deep and strong, and it may well be that this deep-seated vitality will enable the new to graft easily upon the old, promoting a yet more fruitful growth. Social change, however, is not limited to those countries with a rich heritage. It will affect, though perhaps in a different way, those with but a short history; for these too have an equal need to develop towards the new way, not so much by adjustment as by addition.

Technical education such as that given in a college of university standing cannot afford to be narrowly vocational but must be regarded as a means whereby social change and development may be met. The technical college must be regarded as a "social agency" which will also serve private aims of enlightenment and training which have no direct connection with its social purpose. Both conditions will be met if the system solves "the threefold task of:

(1) General or cultural education, promoting the rational and intuitive understanding of Nature, and Society, or, in other words, trying to interpret the meaning, structure and evolution of the world as a whole;

(2) Vocational or technical education, training the student for some special profession in order to make him intellectually fit for a society based on division of labour;

(3) Moral education, dealing with the volitional attitudes of the student, with the aim of forming him according to the "true" standards of the society in question."

If these principles are accepted, then the importance of the "proliminary year" becomes obvious, for it is during this period that the main framework of cultural and moral education must be constructed, thus providing the basis on which to build vocational studies. The range and number of subjects included under a single "Cultural" and "Moral" education must of necessity be determined by experience and experiment. English, Science, Mathematics, together with practical activities must, however, be considered fundamental, while Philosophy, Sociology and Psychology are valuable alike to engineering students and to teachers in training. Any difference in the course of study during the preliminary year for teachers or engineers would be a fundamental mistake, for concerned during this period is a cultural and moral framework from which to build vocational specialization. Further, a wider horizon, together with delay in choosing his future profession, will enable the student to turn to his "vocational studies in a more mature state of mind," for he will have "discovered the place of his future profession on the social map," infinitely preferable to the present "blind" choice. The planned society, in which each student should be equipped to take his place, presupposes a system whereby equality of reward will be made for comparable knowledge and ability in all professions, thus ensuring "flair" or aptitude as a basis of choice for

===== Page 76 =====
Individual professional specialization. A similar course of study during the preliminary year will provide easy transfer for those who commence with the intention of becoming engineers, and find greater aptitude for teaching and vice versa.

The potentialities of this cultural course of study during the preliminary year are great. Successfully operated, i.e., with the right degree of "consciousness of a joint purpose" permeating members of the College; with evidence on every hand of plan and purpose not only in studies, but in recreation and in amenities and provision for right living, this preliminary year will provide a plan for living and thinking, which will constitute a 'force' more than sufficient to last the span of a professional career. As Dr. Lowe points out, "fundamental as moral education will be for the formation of a new elite, the task which falls to the universities in this respect will primarily be one of providing opportunities for this experience and initiative." These opportunities must be presented in such a way that they are sought after rather than compelled; there must be scope for discovery, for creation of standards, so that civic pride and responsibility are fostered.

It is pertinent here to turn from generalities and to consider ways and means whereby plan and purpose may be made evident, for while right living and right thinking by a fully integrated personality may flourish under adverse conditions, the immature and formative mind of the student needs guidance. This guidance may be given through the provision of those things which will exert both conscious and unconscious influence. Bearing in mind the magnitude of the tasks to be undertaken, the relatively short span of years, the importance of an environment which will foster right thinking and right doing is evident.

The creation of a suitable environment is, therefore, of prime importance since it comprehends not only a proper mental atmosphere but also one where material things may contribute to growth and development. It is necessary to consider by what means self-discipline may become a matter of pride, and social obligation a privilege. These things cannot be imposed but must depend upon belief in an inner latent quality susceptible to growth and development. Pride in an institution and the thing for which it stands will in turn give consciousness of being 'citizens of no mean city' and provide the basic awareness of the part which each individual should play, and encourage desire for high individual performance.

The College is the stage for this performance, and the setting or 'decor' must be worthy of the production. Proper and adequate playing fields are important, for it is on those that the student will gain the degree of physical fitness so necessary a counterpart to vigorous mental development, but no less important is the layout of pleasure grounds, i.e., the careful siting, in a relatively small area, of shrubbery, trees, and flowers to inculcate appreciation of the rich beauty of the homeland. Consciousness of the great natural beauty of Malaya is a big step in the development of a national consciousness and pride, and association while a student, with this beauty may easily be a source of strength in later years. If character is to be built it must rest upon real values, for these are necessary to confidence and poise. The student as a future citizen needs to know there are things in which he or she may refer to with legitimate pride. The eyes of a student as a future citizen need to be opened to the beauty of Malaya, and this may best be done by deliberate creation, on a reasonably generous scale, of grounds which will be a "show" place epitomizing Malayan flora. Important though this presentation of natural beauty, in the inculcation of aesthetic values, may be, the purpose will not be fully achieved unless it also provides a practical illustration of the added beauty which results from man's control and selection. Concentration must not, however, spell preoccupation; the boundaries of Malayan education are not [POSSIBLY MISSING]


===== Page 77 =====
Those of the College, but of the country, and for the greater part of the population of Malaya, the College, however successful, can be but a name. Similarly, the College grounds will mean no more than, say, Kew Gardens to the average person in the north of England. Love for the land, the call of the countryside are things which stabilize and revitalize man as well as nation. To promote, as a means to health and natural relaxation amongst Malaysians, interest in gardening such as is to be found amongst thousands of amateur gardeners in England is a project with fascinating possibilities.

In recent years, necessity, i.e., production in order to live, has been the spur which has driven Malaysians to the soil. In fulfilling a need, many have found interest which should not be allowed to die. The College can give a lead in this by (a) being the venue of future Malayan Agricultural and Horticultural Association exhibitions; (b) including the training of agricultural officers among its professional courses; (c) including Rural Science in the curriculum of the teachers in training; (d) example—namely provision of a sufficiently large fruit and vegetable garden to supply a large part of the produce required by the students in residence. The latter project should be run as a self-contained and self-supporting business, i.e., labor and other outgoings being balanced by the estimated value of the produce if bought in the open market. With productivity comes soil exhaustion—the need to replenish the substances lost to the ground through intensive cultivation.

The value of fertilizers should be demonstrated and their use encouraged by the College by (a) development of the Department of Chemistry to include a laboratory devoted to industrial-chemical research and to make available to any interested person or concern research data which will assist in local manufacture of, say, such heavy chemicals as calcium cyanamide. This department would specialize in analysis and experiments designed to assist local commercial enterprise and to set standards in manufactures; (b) utilizing waste products in the gardens, e.g., vegetable and fruit waste for composting, and sludge from the College sewage plant. This plant should not only be an example of modern bio-flocculation treatment of sewage, but so designed that the principles of sewage disposal are fully demonstrated.

Two other projects necessary to efficient and economic organization of the College are a laundry and a bakery.

The former is projected because experience has shown the difficulty of effecting a satisfactory contract for laundry work with local firms. This is due to the cessation of work during vacations and the difficulty of retaining staff during this time, and because no laundry concern is large enough to cater for the numbers which will be in residence. Absence of competition for this means higher charges than the students can or should afford, the alternative being unsatisfactory work.

The latter project, i.e., the bakery, will ensure bread of the size and shape best suited to large scale catering and also the use of ingredients of known quality. Further consideration of these two projects shows that it will be both a convenience and an economy for this work to be done on the premises, providing they are organized and run on business lines. Economy will be found since steam boilers will be necessary for rice cooking and for the fixing of dyed yarn and textiles in the Craft Research Institute. To have separate boiler plants for each is not only wasteful in that it means increased plant and building costs entailed by duplication, but that fuel and maintenance costs with a number of small boilers is appreciably more than that of two or three large boilers servicing all the projects. It will also mean that reasonably large plant is available on the premises for students of mechanical engineering to gain good practical experience. Sketch plans of the layout of the College provide for a building situated immediately behind the Craft Research Institute.

===== Page 78 =====
This building consists of a boiler room flanked on one side by a rice kitchen containing a battery of rice steamers, and on the other by a dye factory, i.e., with vats for the treatment of cotton and silk yarn and fabric used in the Craft Research Institute. Behind the boiler room is the bakery with a dry goods store above. Over the rice kitchen and the dye factory is an ironing room and laundry respectively. Steam from the boilers would also be piped to the Craft Research Institute for fixing and developing printed fabrics.

Student residential accommodation should be considered in the same way, i.e., living space planned to give a reasonable degree of comfort coupled with efficiency which will provide a proper standard of 'living'. To this end, each study bedroom is designed to give sleeping and study space for two students. Each hostel or hall of residence having in addition dining, lounge and common rooms and kitchen, servery, stores, etc.

This provision, together with the main college building and the Students Union Building covers all the requirements of full-time students for study, rest, and recreation.

If the College is to be truly a 'people's university' then the needs of part-time study (evening class students) and part-time adult leisure education must be related to and to a certain extent impinge upon the provision for full-time education. Class and lecture rooms, laboratories, and workshops will of course be available to part-time students, but these part-time study courses are but a part of the adult education project.

Adult education, other than full-time professional courses, has in the past been available to the 'man in the street' through evening classes. These classes have been attended by those with a specific object, namely, improvement of general or technical education as a means to enhance salary or status. This problem, while it may be attended by certain difficulties arising in the main from diversity of objective, is not insuperable for the initial spur to attendance and regular study is present. In recent years, however, recreational and leisure activity designed as an end in itself to enrich or develop the mental content of the individual has taken shape. This, though marking a reorientation of educational values and presenting problems of its own, still only caters for a small section of the adult population for it is in effect a 'topping up' in that it presupposes possession of a certain standard of general education, i.e., sufficient to create desire for further knowledge and to assimilate subject matter conveyed by means of the press, discussion groups and the radio. While this is, as it should be, an approach for those requiring greater cultural and aesthetic development, it does not claim or pretend to meet the needs of those less mentally developed or to cater for the illiterate whose opportunity for mental exercise and development is infinitely less.

It may be that the illiterate or unlearned lack the mental capacity to feel or know (despite every opportunity which may be given) anything of aesthetic or cultural values, but this does not mean that their need for those things which will stimulate their minds, give wider interests and increase happiness, making them into better citizens, is any the less. Rather, it may be said, that having so little their need is infinitely greater. Therefore, while the degree of need which may be fairly apportioned to each mental group or class is arguable, there can be no argument concerning the right of all to receive according to his need and that no system of education can pretend to be comprehensive which does not plan to cater for all.

It is obvious that the nature and magnitude of the task which confronts those responsible for the organisation of adult education is formidable. Even very broad grouping or classification of mental ability shows that the approach

===== Page 79 =====
To those of limited mental development, educational needs must be very different from those of greater capacity. Thus, while there is unity of aim, namely, creation of a greater degree of self-sufficiency or personal happiness in all, the conception of happiness varies with each individual and recognition of this fact is essential. From this it appears that a preliminary or partial solution of the main initial problem will lie in first selecting those things of general appeal (which may be of only limited educational value) to each mental group and then, in the light of experience, add the personal quotient.

Mass adult education, i.e., the attempt to give something to every man and woman, must, despite difficulties, be the eventual aim. That the obstacles to development are not insuperable is illustrated by a project of a similar nature carried out during the last twenty years in Russia. Whatever may be the degree of success ascribed to the Russian project, even the most critical must admit the progress made in the face of great difficulties. In particular, mention should be made of severe variation in climate. Where such variation exists, and even in countries with less severe variation, such as Great Britain, the problem of accommodation during inclement weather and short days is a very real one. No such difficulties exist in countries such as Malaya, and it may be that this factor alone will enable Malaya to carry out experiments in mass adult education of value not only to Malaya but elsewhere.

It is here that the value of spacious college grounds becomes evident. They will be of even greater value if within easy reach of the majority of the population of the town in which it is situated. The college grounds then become part of a 'green belt' or 'lung' whereby townsfolk can enjoy the cool evening air, and find recreation and entertainment. Incubation of the 'open air' habit, to the extent of an hour or so each evening, would be a step towards better health and also provide the mass attendance necessary for an unobtrusive system of education. Nightly broadcasting of news, carried out in a small way before the war and no less necessary after the war, is an obvious step. Music broadcasts and talks (national propaganda) suggest the value of an 'open air' theatre for the performance of plays in the vernacular, i.e., traditional Chinese and Indian plays; also modern plays with a Malayan theme, together with presentation of that characteristic and fascinating feature of Malay life—shadow puppetry. A sports stadium to meet the needs of youth, with the exhibitions hall in the main college building, suggests reasonably complete provision for this project.

No doubt each and all of these projects could be carried out elsewhere, but apart from unnecessary duplication of 'grounds,' such separation would fail to take cognizance of the part which it is intended full-time students should take in this work. In place of the multifarious student societies common to most universities, it is proposed that student energy should be concentrated to one end, namely social service. Though it will be a part-time or spare-time occupation or hobby, it should nevertheless be a subject for study. Participation and practice under guidance in the college project would foster the degree of confidence which students need before organising games, discussion groups, or giving talks in other parts of the country. Utilisation of the services of the best youth of the country should prove a powerful unifying factor.

In this, as with all education, we have to remember that "Competence exists only in relation to function: that men are not good, but good for something: that man cannot be educated, but only educated for something." (Walter Lippman, The Phantom Public) and that the function of education in Malaya is to produce good Malayans.

===== Page 80 =====
51033

===== Page 81 =====
51033

===== Page 82 =====
Post-war reorganisation and development of education: memorandum by R. Henderson. 1946. MS Records of the British Colonial Office CO 273/678/10. The National Archives (Kew, United Kingdom). State Papers Online Colonial, link.gale.com/apps/doc/VBTBZK752677016/SPOC?u=nuslib&sid=bookmark-SPOC&xid=832cd92e. Accessed 1 Mar. 2026.

Gale Document Number: GALE|VBTBZK752677016

