===== Page 1 =====
1943
50788
CLOSED UNTIL 1972
C/O 273
671/8 STRAITS S
1676

Recruitment of Labour
Discussions with Rubber Growers Ass.

Previous

Subsequent

203 PUT BY

===== Page 2 =====
50788

1994

===== Page 3 =====
Ref. your minute above, of 21 June,
Mr G. O. Young F.O. tells me that
(a) two T.O. staff from NEL are in this country.
(b) the Dutch cinemaproductors are the keen mind who shows close these talks but we should contact by telephone Mr Karneback of the Dutch legation in the first place.
You don't want to do this immediately.

W.Bh. 7mn.
25. 1:43

We might wait to Mr Banoni's answer.

It should be noted that the BNB Coy (pp. 97 Wodeman) has included in a memorandum put sent to us a special engine as to

===== Page 4 =====
The availability of a United Indus Official with whom they can take up the matter of resuming immigration into N.B. of Japanese labour under the management subhistory before the war.

Sr. Grant 26.1

M. Wallman 28.

Henred Clarendon of 1820 09/09/1941 No 1707/1941

===== Page 5 =====
Mr. Barron has given us a good deal of information although he cannot cover all the ground on the points on which we wrote to him after consultation with the R.G.A. Mr. Gent has already written to Mr. Wilson, and in the meantime we might send an interim "report" to the R.G.A.

As regards the second paragraph of Mr. Barron's letter, I have traced references to the introduction of the Bill in the F.M.S. Federal Council enabling the use of the Indian Immigration Fund for the import etc. of Netherlands Indies labour and have attached these to the file. Strangely enough there does not appear to have been any publication in the Gazette of the text of the Bill introduced at this Federal Council, but the new Clauses 2, 3 and 4, quoted on page 8 have the general effect of extending that portion of the Labour Code which deals with the Indian Immigration Fund to Netherlands East Indian labourers.

6.2.43.

? any action in regard to Mr. Barron — so far as I have seen any correspondence from him, the latter always stressed that his intention of staying free on his Co. Code forms.

4 To Wilson

12.4.43

5 To F. M. Barron

15.2.43

6 H. M. Copeman W/O Extracts.

Soon.

The Legal Advisor may be asked if the Bill has any legal effect unless it has received the formal assent of the Governor of High Commission, and if it has received his formal assent whether it has legal effect notwithstanding the fact that

===== Page 6 =====
It has not been gazetted so far as is known here.

775 legislation is asserted to interfere with the 4 Sultans, and an investment is not presumably here unless it has required such assistance.

W.B.H. Truman, 1972

The enactment of 775 legislation depends upon treaty relations between the Sultans in the Federation. But since the enacting words of each enactment are clearly enacted by the Rulers of Fiji by virtue of the advice of the Federal Council, each Sultan is insignificant in consent to the enactment. We can draw a fair inference as to ratify the legislative arrangement.

H. Balakrane
22/2

I have thanked Sir Sidney Abraham. This legislation is not complete to the extent it remains merely a brief work. The assent of the State Rulers is given to it. Dr. Jr. is to be presumed that his assent had not been given when the Japanese entered Malaya, unless there is any evidence to refute that presumption.

J. Balakrane
18-2-43

DESTROYED UNDER STATUTE.

19-2-43

===== Page 7 =====
I have obtained from Mr. Bryant a railway warrant which can be sent to Mr. Barron with the draft herewith.

When Mr. Barron comes, it would be very useful to arrange for him to have a talk with Colonel French. It might also be useful to ask Mr. Copeman to come here for a joint talk with Mr. Barron.

As regards accommodation, I have spoken to Mr. Bryant who tells me that the Ministry of Food has some arrangements for their people who come to London, and he has no doubt that we should be able to book a room for Mr. Barron, and I think we could undertake to do so.

In the last paragraph of his earlier letter (No. 17), Mr. Barron asked us to ask the British Permit Office in Dublin to give him a permit to come to this country. After speaking to Mr. Costar as to the best way of doing this, I have rung up Mr. Back of the Passport Control Office, and he has undertaken to instruct the Officer in charge of the Dublin Office to issue Mr. Barron a visa on application (Mr. Costar says that this is a better way of doing it than asking Mr. Hankison to arrange it in Dublin).

25.2.43.

To Barron: Wends as attached draft
27.2.43

L. M. Barron

DESTROYED UNDER STATUTE

5.3.43.

===== Page 8 =====
I have spoken to Mr. Woodman, who would very much prefer that any discussions with Mr. Barron, in which he may have to play a part, should take place on the 15th, 16th, or 17th of March, as he is going on leave on the 18th.

Apart from the R.G.A. and our own talks with Mr. Barron, it would no doubt be useful for Colonel French (M.O.11, War Office) to see him, too, though this could be combined with our own talks.

As in drafts herewith.

6th March, 1943.

Noted. I shall be interested to hear what Mr. Barron has to tell us.

G. T. Dr. Dixon
6.3.43

I shall like to attend any meetings, but may be arranged with Mr. Dixon.

813

Before these meetings, I had already sent the attached reply to Mr. Barron.

We must try to fulfil his wish of him on the 17th for A. Woodman.

Received by Mr. Woodman after letters had come.

813 alm

===== Page 9 =====
DESTROYED UNDER STATUTE

We had a meeting yesterday with Mr. Barron. The R.G.A. representatives were Mr. Hake, Mr. Hadow, Mr. Barlow, and Mr. Kennedy. Sir Clifford Figg and I were there to hold the ring for the Colonial Office.

Mr. Barron said what he knew about the state of the pre-war negotiations between the Malayan and Netherland Indies Authorities about Javanese labour. He had no more than he had already written in No.17, and this had been passed on in substance to the R.G.A. in my letter to the Chairman, No.20. The conclusions of the Rubber Growers' representatives were that it would be premature at this stage to propose conversations with the Netherlands Authorities in London, or with the Government of India, or the Chinese Authorities for the purposes of obtaining some sort of conditional promise of labour for estates in Malaya, but that they would get on with their estimates of what might be required (Mr. Barron suggested 50,000 in the early stages of resumption of estate work), and would keep us in touch with any memoranda they prepared.

In due course, when the plans for setting up a skeleton Malayan administration were further advanced, they would bring the question up again for further consideration of the Economic Branch of the Military Establishment which might be preparing the comprehensive plan for re-occupation.

Sir Clifford Figg
24.3.43.

Mr Parkinson
24.3.43.

===== Page 10 =====
DESTROYED UNDER STATUTE

20-3-43
25-3-43

22% Reed W/o. 677.
See file 50767/42 (53).
5/4/43

23 C. Wilson

12-4-43

24 To C. Wilson

16-4-43

===== Page 11 =====
Mr. Paskin.
Mr. Wodeman.

I received the attached some days ago from Mr. Wilson, late Controller of Labour in Malaya. His Malayan experience was extensive, and much of what he writes, particularly in regard to Chinese affairs, is, I should say, sound. But of special value are his notes on the association of Javanese labour with Malaya - the subject on which we specially sought information from him.

In paragraph 28 he sums up his views on future immigration into Malaya, and it is clear that he would be opposed to assisted immigration since he believes that Malaya is a paradise for labour, and that effective machinery could be devised for Malaya to pick and choose from China and elsewhere the labour which the country might need from time to time. He is obviously opposed to the pre-war system of a quota for Chinese labourers as being not selective enough.

This should be registered and I think we may have to send to the Rubber Growers' Association, who I think promoted the enquiry, those parts of it which contain a historical record of the use of Javanese labour in Malaya.

CD

30.4.43.

Could you please make an extra copy
(1) of Mr Wilson's letter or note.
(2) of documentation extract at end of letter

W.B.L. 7mm,
6.5

===== Page 12 =====
Mr. Paschin,

You passed this on to me on the Saturday. I have held a duplicate type.

We share now? Register the original on the Indian Immigration Time file (R203). We should discuss with me a before action as it may now be better to split the existing file or register a copy on the Foreign Policy Miscellaneous regulations 53/109/11/34/34 representations subfile.

(The passage count at Thames has already been expressed for his Papers file).

Mr. Bishir

99.6.

Mr. Gent,

I am sorry that this has been held up while a search has been made for old papers dealing with the various fronts which Mr. Wilson then raised. I have now the cannot find the memo by Sir Hugh Clifford to which Mr. Wilson refers in § 12 of his memo.

I suggest however that we should let the RGA have a copy of the first 20 paragraphs of the memo.

===== Page 13 =====
10. Leaving Mr. Wilson's views of Chinese immigration at the relation of the Lehman Depot or Chinese Protectorate, or suggest that when their subcommittee has consent it will arrange for a further Vale to join them to which Mr. Wilson will be interested.

Loth. Wilson.

No. C. D. Moore make an extra copy of the letter enclosed for M. Wodeman's files.

Mayn Ordn Brown

Mgrut

25

To H. H. Copeman

We extract from encl. to letter to M. Wodeman (4-6-43) from our Wilson of 12/4/43

Mr. Wodeman.

The wishes [POSSIBLY MISSING TEXT] to see this file which I am noting for an Economic Adviser. The copies will go on a news

===== Page 14 =====
I am glad to have had the opportunity of reading Mr. Wilson's memorandum. He has undeniably a long experience of the subject, and his views are therefore entitled to due weight. At the same time, I was, while in Malaya, far more impressed by the efficiency of the Chinese Protectorate than that of the Labour Department. Mr. Wilson resented the dual system and considered that the whole control of labour should be under one head. While there is much to be said in support of this view, I would certainly not support it if the head were to be Mr. Wilson, as was clearly his intention.

Mr. Jordan, who appeared to me to be far more competent and reliable than Mr. Wilson, in conversation with me, volunteered the view that a measure of amalgamation of the two branches of labour control was desirable; the details would require careful consideration. I therefore expressed the tentative view that this should be considered, in my Report (paragraph 88 of the Malayan section).

Mr. Ahearne, from what I have seen of him, seemed to me very sound and reliable. But, if new labour organisation is to be created, I would stress the importance of having the views of the Chinese Secretariat adequately presented—if possible, by Mr. Jordan, when he may become available.

I gave much consideration to this problem while in Malaya, and I am convinced that it is by no means as easily settled as Mr. Wilson's memorandum would suggest. I have a considerable amount of material bearing on the problem, beyond what appears in my Report (which was much shortened on account of the loss of Malaya) and this is naturally at your disposal if the question is being considered.

===== Page 15 =====
President Obama
Ministry 2012-22/2.

18th Amendment in Daily

===== Page 16 =====
THE RUBBER GROWERS' ASSOCIATION.
(INCORPORATED)

19 Fenchurch Street,
London, E.C.3.
31st January, 1944.

Sir,

I have the honour, on behalf of the Council of the Rubber Growers' Association, to address you on the question of the supplies of labour required on rubber estates in Malaya after that territory has been re-occupied.

2. My Council are convinced that the whole future of Malaya in the post-war world will be prejudiced unless preparations are made now to obviate delay in dealing with the problem of labour supply.

3. This conviction is based on a recollection of the difficulties which already existed in regard to supplies of South Indian labourers right up to the time of the Japanese invasion. Correspondence was then still being conducted between the Malayan Government and the Indian Government on the conditions which the latter Government desired to impose before it would relax its ban on recruiting.

The position of Chinese labour was also being seriously considered by the various bodies in Malaya.

4. My Council consider that it is reasonable to contemplate that the stress of war and all the consequences of the invasion of Malaya will have done nothing to relieve the situation but rather the reverse.

5. Prior to the invasion of Malaya, an enactment (No. 17 of 1941) was passed at a meeting of the Federal Council held on 20th November 1941, to provide funds for the recruitment of Javanese labour. My Council are aware that discussions had already proceeded with certain Netherlands Indies Government Officials on the machinery and conditions requisite for such recruitment. These events were the direct outcome of the difficulties experienced in the recruitment of South Indian labourers.

6. The war in the East has put an end to all these discussions. The personnel of the bodies responsible, e.g., the Indian Immigration Committee and the United Planting Association of Malaya are internees or prisoners of war. Valuable time will be lost before they can possibly function after Malaya is re-occupied.

The Under Secretary of State,
Colonial Office,
LONDON, S.W.1.

===== Page 17 =====
7. My Council, therefore, suggests that prudence dictates that an endeavour should be made to bridge the gap in the negotiations by the appointment in this country of a small advisory committee.

8. There are many ex-Malayan planters on the Council of the Rubber Growers' Association, some of whom have been Members of the Indian Immigration Committee. Their services would be readily available. My Council is aware that there are several Malayan Civil Servants in this country who have had experience in the Labour Department. It may be that you have in view the appointment of one of these men as the future Controller of Labour. Such a man, with the assistance of representatives from this Association, might form the small advisory committee contemplated, which would be a very useful channel for the transmission of instructions and enquiries between the Controller of Labour and the administration of producing companies. It is felt that such a consultative body, presided over by an Officer of the Colonial Office, would be of mutual benefit to all concerned.

9. It may be thought that there is very little practical work that such a Committee could do, or that alternatively the object would be achieved by correspondence. My Council are satisfied that the following examples of preparatory work should be sufficient to warrant the appointment of this Committee:

(1) Resumption of discussions with Netherlands Indies Government Officials.

(2) Arrangements for reports on

(a) supply of South Indian labourers to existing demands,

(b) the attitude of the Indian Government thereto,

(c) the general outlook and fitness and efficiency of the labourers, their conduct, etc.,

(d) any changes that have been made in the method of recruitment and transport.

(3) A re-examination of the problems which confronted Malaya in regard to South Indian labourers.

(4) A study of possible conditions of work, rates of wages, and social services.

10. Moreover, it is very doubtful whether any enquiries which were made, especially to Netherlands East Indies Government Officials, would have any result unless they were made by a body specially appointed and having Government recognition.

I have the honour to be, Sir,

Your obedient Servant,

Chairman.

===== Page 18 =====
C. O.

Mr. Mason G. Sir A. Dawe.
Mr. Sir W. Battershill.
Mr. Permt. U.S. of S.
Mr. G. E. J. Gent. 4/5.
Mr. G. L. M. Clauson.
Mr. C. J. Jeffries.

Secretary of State

DRAFT.

H.F. Cipman Esq.
Butter Grosse Lassoc.

7. 6. 43

With reference to our earlier correspondence on the question of Japanese labor, I enclose a personal letter which has been sent to me, a copy of some written Wilson which summarizes the past history of negotiations with the N.E.I. Govt. on the subject. I regard them as not for publication.

You will no doubt wish to press the members of the Association Sub-Committee which, in dealing with the information given, may, after they have had an opportunity of studying them, see an advantage in conveying this message to the members, so that he may be happy to arrange to see if we will get either Wilson or Ahearn on again.

(Signed) C. E. J. GENT

===== Page 19 =====
Dear Sir,

Your first letter came when my wife and I were down with flu and was completely overlooked. Please excuse also this typewriting which is, however, easier on the eyes than my handwriting.

You will find that the attached memorandum on Javanese labour goes a lot further than you asked for but it may, however, be more use to you for considering immigration and labour as a whole.

I hope it will not be considered as a criticism of Jordan. Both labour and protectorate men had a big grouse against the secretariat because of the way that, without any say in the matter, we were chosen to learn Tamil and Chinese and, if any good at the work, condemned for life to those departments. We labourites were luckier than the Chinese, for we did manage to get out and thus learn something of general administration as well as the opportunity we had of doing positive things in connection with Indian immigration. Aman, like Jordan, could not help being a bit timorous about proposing things which brought him into contact with running things. All my officers who had had Indian experience saw my proposals and approved of them. When working them out I showed them to some protectorate officers who thought they would work.

As regards the Residents I think that a change was taking place. Officers who had served in recent years in Kedah, Johore and Kelantan were beginning to be more critical of the ultra-pro-Malay policy and as I write in the morning, Resident,

===== Page 20 =====
Cowgill put it on paper that my proposals were the first constructive ones he had seen and should form the nucleus of discussion.

My attitude is exactly that of George Maxwell in his article in the February issue of "British Malaya." The Guillemard and Clementi policy completely antagonised the Indians and Malays. As well as being foolish, it was quite unnecessary, for the Indians and Chinese who had prospered under British care in Malaya did not want to see Malaya overrun by swarms of their countrymen taking away the opportunities from the children of the domiciled communities of any race.

I was speaking to Jordan on this subject just before I left Malaya, and he told me that Sir Shenton had understoodly addressed the Secretary of State shortly before this, advising that there should be primary education for those who wanted it in English. If this is correct, it was wise advice. I would go further, and as soon as we settle down again in Malaya, I should go in for a five-year campaign of adult education in Basic English. Keir, our Chief Inspector of English Schools, told me on his return from the Pan-Pacific Conference on Education at Honolulu that he believed five years would do it.

I hope that the premises from which I built up my philosophy of administration in Malaya will not appear oversimplified or too crude. They are these: The wealth, active and potential, of Malaya is enormous, especially in comparison with the rest of the East. With that wealth, we can give everyone a tremendously high standard of living, and if we do that with ordinary gumption, we should avoid, for many a long day, political and racial questions. We must

===== Page 21 =====
However, as quickly as we can, build up a Malayan mentality and forestall the Malay mentality which, by depending on the Sultans, we were building up.

You asked me if I could come over to London.

I should be glad to do so at any time you want, especially now that winter is over. The difficulty is the permit to travel, so if you want me, please, when asking me to come, either obtain the permit or, in writing to me, make your letter official so that the permit officer may recognize it.

I hear that Leslie Thomas has arrived in England.

I can recommend him as an absolutely sound policeman who knows his stuff. Both the Colony and F.M.S. police forces in the last ten years, ever since Hannigan and Fairburn left, have been too favourable to a type of officer who thought more of drill and appearance than of real police work. Poor old Sansom rather let the bright young people lead him by the nose, and it broke him up when so many had to be turned out for other trouble. In this period, a man of Thomas' quiet type was looked down on. Had H.E. consulted the Civil Service, neither Bagot nor Dickinson would have been preferred to Thomas.

Yours sincerely,

===== Page 22 =====
Javanese Labour.

1. I brought home no notes about Javanese Labour except those to be found in the Annual Reports of the Malayan Labour Department signed by myself (e.g., pages 8, 75, 76, A.R. 1938). The following, even if not always correct to a year, is believed to be a fair summary of what has already taken place.

2. There was always a certain amount of migration between the peninsula and the Dutch islands. When large-scale planting started during the 1890s, this migration became larger and was fostered to some extent.

3. To Central Perak at this time came from Sumatra many temporary immigrants and some settlers. They opened up rubber estates by growing sustenance crops of bananas. They nearly all sold out to Europeans and Chinese. No permanent connection with Sumatra was built up. Indeed, at this very time the Dutch planters in Sumatra found it necessary to build up a very expensive organisation to bring Javanese labour to Sumatra.

4. To the west coast of Johore, there had been for as long as I can remember a steady stream of Javanese immigrants who settled down in kampongs of their own making. The connection thus formed with Java was not used by estates until a couple of years ago when the Labour Department began to interest planters in the possibilities of making it the nucleus for a large and firm connection with Java.

===== Page 23 =====
5. To the best of my knowledge, it was the first rubber boom which began organised recruitment of Javanese for Malaya. Though there may have been some independent Singapore firms engaged in recruiting, the bulk of the recruits came through the agencies already working for the Sumatra planters. In any case, Malaya got the scum of the trade. The number of Javanese indentured labourers was so large when I joined the service in 1913 that two Civil Servants had been sent over to learn Javanese, and the N.I. government was taking an interest in the conditions under which Javanese lived in Malaya.

6. It was at this time that the government took over the management of Indian assisted immigration. The costs were greatly reduced and really satisfactory coolies came in large numbers. Many of the new Malayan planters came from tea estates in Ceylon where they had learnt Tamil and the ways of Indian labour. For these reasons, and also because the Javanese indentured coolies were the leavings whom the Sumatra planters would not take, interest in Javanese recruitment faded out almost completely. The leading employer of Javanese was Theodore Hubback, afterwards the leading man in the wildlife crusade. He was a paternal autocrat in his treatment of "his" coolies and came up against Ellis, one of the two Javanese cadets, who was not, he thought, sufficiently supported by the Controller of Labour and by Government, and committed suicide in 1919.

7. For about fifteen years after this, the only estates which imported Javanese were Selborne Plantations, a guttapercha estate, and a couple of rubber estates at Kuantan.

===== Page 24 =====
8. My own interest in Javanese labour began in 1928 when Dr. Vreede, Controller of Labour in the N.I., came to Madras when I was Emigration Commissioner for Malaya. He was a prominent Theosophist and lived at Adyar where Mrs Besant had her headquarters. He was shown the detailed working of assisted Indian emigration to Malaya and given the reasons for everything that we did. He compared it historically and in detail with what was done in the N.I.

He approved of our work and expressed himself desirous, if he were permitted, to take over our system and apply it to the N.I.

He said, however, it was useless to think of proposing it. The Dutch planters had their own semi-cooperatives, semi-commercial organisation in which a lot of vested interests had grown up.

As employers they were subjected to stricter inspection rules and control than Malayan planters. They would object strongly to further extension of government management of their affairs.

Conditions on Dutch estates were outwardly much better than those on Malayan estates but there was none of the friendly feelings which existed between planters and coolies in Malaya. He gave me an example of this. One of his inspectors had been sent over to report on conditions on Malayan estates which still recruited Javanese by permission of the government of the N.I. After a few days this inspector sent Mr. Vreede a private letter informing him that while housing, hospitals, water supply and suchlike were not up to N.I. standards, the workers were happier, freer and just as healthy. He feared that if he reported favourably on Malaya, a Dutch employer visiting Malaya might raise questions about the higher standard insisted on in Sumatra.

===== Page 25 =====
Vreede sent the inspector a table telling him to go easy until he could come over and see for himself. On visiting an estate with Vreede, the inspector pointed out that the housing consisted of native type kampong houses and not of standard estate lines, but that the houses and their surroundings were perfectly clean, that the hospital was not up to Sumatra standard, but the health of the workers was good. Vreede pointed out to him that everywhere they went, the manager was surrounded by a crowd of children whose parents grinned at him and asked him what he thought of conditions as a whole. He replied that of course it was obvious that the coolies were happy and contented, that they were earning good wages and in fact the conditions which he was satisfied were typical were at least as good as those in Sumatra. Vreede told him to write this opinion, and he himself expressed the same opinion to his government and their reports were accepted. Vreede was greatly impressed with our "voluntary" emigrants, that is to say with the people who, unsolicited by a recruiter, came often hundreds of miles to our depots and, on being accepted, were sent to Malaya to work wherever they liked.

I thereupon showed him the complete emigration figures, i.e., of both assisted and unassisted emigrants, and explained to him how our inspectors who travelled on the steamers from Madras to Malaya inspected all passengers on board and found out all about their circumstances. In this way, we knew that a large and increasing proportion of passengers who paid their own fares were really labourers going over to work, attracted by favourable reports from friends and relatives.

9. I suggested to Vreede that when he told the Sumatran planters about our methods and their success, they might change their

===== Page 26 =====
Views, adopt some of our ideas and work in the direction first of getting rid of recruiters and then of assisted emigration. These, I believed, were going to be the stages of development in Indian emigration to Malaya. As I expected, he said that this was beyond the comprehension of the planters. I had had similar discussions with men connected with the recruitment of labour from South India to South India (curious as it may seem), Ceylon, and Assam. They had gone thoroughly into our methods and gone into our old reports and all our figures and seen exactly what had taken place. They said exactly what he did.

10. Vreede was very favourably inclined towards us. While I was swithering about asking him whether he would be in favour of us working on our own lines between Java and Malaya, he went out of his way to suggest it. He said he believed that if we would get in touch with his government without too much noise, his government would permit. I understood that his government was anxious to start a movement of excess population from Java to Sumatra, and he felt that our methods would assist in attaining this objective. He emphasised that we would have to work without beating of tom-toms, or else we would be up against the Dutch employers who looked on every labourer who went to Malaya as a potential agitator because we did not control labour strictly enough. This recalled to me an encounter I had in a train between Queenstown and Dublin in the last war when I met a party of Dutch journalists who were being shown the American war effort. When they discovered I came from the F.M.S., they asserted that we ruined their labour by our softness.

11. I reported my conversations with Dr. Vreede and went on leave soon afterwards. At that time we could get all the labour

===== Page 27 =====
2. My tours of duty in India convinced me that we would be unwise to depend on India as much as we did for plantation labour. The same opinion was expressed by Sir Hugh Clifford in an important memorandum which was afterwards printed and which is probably in the Colonial Office. Accordingly, when I acted as Controller of Labour in 1934, I looked into the possibilities of strengthening the Javanese connection and came to the conclusion that in Johore, where the need for labour was greatest, the Javanese connection was already good enough to form a sound foundation for building up a supply of non-assisted immigration. The Javanese had already out-grown their kampongs along the coast, and many estates had attracted the nuclei of Javanese labour forces from this excess population. The Johore Labour Office made enquiries both directly and through planters and found that these people had still a good connection with Java both by correspondence and through regular coming and going between Johore and the ancestral kampongs in Java. It was pointed out to employers that, as in the case of Chinese and Indians, it was almost certain that while wages in Java remained low—10 to 15 cents a day—and those in Malaya were over forty cents, all that had to be done was to let Javanese coolies already in Malaya know that there was work for their friends and pass on the information to them. When I was in India, I had already got a number of planters to try this method. The results were excellent.

3. During this year the Government of India permitted assisted immigration to be resumed. Though many employers thought that an undue risk was being taken and applied similar recruiting methods to India—the bearer letter system—and gave out kangany

===== Page 28 =====
Licences very sparingly. The results were embarrassingly successful, particularly after I went over to India for a year to work out the details. Some simple formalities were established which enabled the migration to be controlled in detail both in quality and in quantity. (See Annual Report, 1937, paras. 21, A.R.1938, paras. 29-35.)

14. I returned to Malaya as controller of Labour in 1936 and found that in a quiet way several Johore estates were working as we had advised. A couple of others had in addition obtained permission from our government and that of the N.I. to use the facilities of the Dutch recruiting firms. The threat of war had caused a demand for gutta-percha for cables and the manager of Selborne Plantations, which had for years been on a care and maintenance basis, had to reopen his estate. Permission to recruit Javanese was obtained for him from the N.I., and from him full details of the method and the expense involved were obtained. The cost was over $60 a head which, though high, was a good deal less than the previous estimates.

15. In 1937 or 1938, the Yam Tuan of Negri Sembilan raised at a Durbar the possibility of replacing Indians in the P.W.D. and F.M.S.R. by Javanese. The High Commissioner took up the matter with H.B.M.'s Consul General at Batavia and asked for my views and those of the Federal Secretary. For the first time I then saw the previous papers dealing with Javanese recruitment. From these it appeared that when the Labour Gods were being revised at the end of the twenties, the N.I. government had been consulted about the sections dealing with Javanese indentured labour. Mr. Vreede and another representative had come over about 1929 and c

===== Page 29 =====
Cordial relations had been established. The papers showed that Mr. Vreede had confirmed what he had told me in Madras a few years before. He even suggested that we should use the facilities of their Labour exchanges. For several good reasons, the suggestions were not followed up. Mr. Bathurst, the Controller of Labour Malaya, died suddenly a few months afterward. The controllership was held for several months afterward by an acting officer, and when Mr. Ahearne returned from leave and took over the post, he first had to go on a long visit to Simla, leading a combined Malayan and Hong Kong delegation to draft rules about Safety of Life at Sea. On his return, his principal duties were in connection with retrenchment in the colony. The great slump had started; far from a shortage of Labour, there was a serious excess, and the need for a new source was ipso facto indefinitely postponed.

16. I put up the facts, and the Consul General reported that the N.I. Government seemed helpful. Indeed, they suggested that officers of the two labour departments should meet and put up proposals.

17. From this date till 1941, this subject followed an uneven course. The recession in American prosperity in 1937 led to a steep but not lasting setback in Malaya in 1938. This led to unemployment, relief works, and some repatriation of Indians and Chinese. The very word "immigration" had a scaring effect on the Residents and Advisers. It raised the question of Chinese immigration, which was already being rigidly controlled.

18. Under Congress pressure, India stopped both assisted and unassisted emigration to Malaya. War started. As the release

===== Page 30 =====
Gradually, more labour was needed. The Governor was in the unfortunate position of wanting to keep down the population of the country because of the danger of food shortage if a crisis arose and at the same time needing more labour to produce rubber and tin.

19. There was a further difficulty. The immigration of non-British aliens had already been the subject of legislation and action. The Secretary for Chinese Affairs considered it a breach of faith to permit the immigration of Javanese without allowing more Chinese to come in and he did not want more Chinese.

20. Before I left Malaya in August 1941, the moves actually made were:

(a) The preparation of a draft amendment of the Labour Code so that if necessary the Immigration Fund could be used to assist Javanese immigration.

(b) The Consul General at Batavia was asked to reopen the subject with the N.I. government.

(c) Planters were told to get on with the propaganda recruitment described above. The Netherlands Consul General at Singapore had stated that his government did not regard this propaganda as in any way a breach of the arrangement between the two governments by which recruitment would be carried on through recognised channels alone.

21. I do not know how much is on record at the Colonial Office about the discussions which took place in Malaya in the years say 1937-41 about Chinese Immigration. These all arose out of the question of an adequate labour supply and must therefore be mentioned in connection with Javanese labour.

22. At the beginning of the 1929 slump, when it was first proposed that restrictions should be laid on the immigration

===== Page 31 =====
Of Chinese, Mr. Ahearne was Controller-of-Labour acting as Colonial Treasurer and objected that Malaya was a land of booms as well as of slumps and that the Chinese came to Malaya of their own accord and without assistance and had proved their ability to weather depressions. He agreed with what Sir Hugh Clifford, in the memorandum referred to above, that the Chinese Protectorate had made too much of a mystery of the management of Chinese labour and that if a real attempt was made, Chinese labourers could be as easily absorbed as those of other races. The composition of Chinese immigration had been changing, and the Chinese, like the Indians, were bringing their wives and children with them and were tending to become more settled than the former tough, clannish, inscrutable, bachelor, ever-moving, contractor-controlled forces whose employers, especially if European, really knew very little about them. Mr. Ahearne's views at first prevailed, but in a short time restriction of Chinese immigration was brought in. The system adopted was a quota handed out to shipping companies and by them divided up amongst ticket brokers. It was a thoroughly iniquitous system which gave rise to great abuses. At first this restriction applied to males only, but about 1937 it was applied to women since they were coming in independently in large numbers. When the demand for labour rose, employers complained that the system encouraged the immigration of shop assistants and other non-manual workers and discouraged that of labourers and artisans. Unable to get any satisfaction from the Protectorate, employers asked government to allow the Labour Department to look into the question and see if some of the methods of the Indian Immigration Committee could not be applied to Chinese immigration.

===== Page 32 =====
23. A committee under my Chairmanship was set up which proposed that instead of leaving the allocation of quota tickets to ticket brokers in China, an unassisted system of nominations by relatives and employers in Malaya should be established. The price of quota tickets had risen to scandalous heights — $200 and more. I went into this very carefully and fully with Chinese employers who knew all about the details of the movements of immigrants from the time they left their homes inland in China until they got employment in Malaya. I was satisfied and am still satisfied that the system proposed would work smoothly, without too many abuses, and would ensure the admission into Malaya of the type and number of immigrants which the needs and policy of the time demanded. Nor would the proposed system be liable to attack on political grounds.

24. Nothing came of these proposals for three reasons.

(a) The fluctuations in trade made H.E. regard them as not of immediate importance. In view of the anxious times through which he was passing, H.E. was justified in this.

(b) The unwillingness of the S.C.A. to consider any suggestions of any nature whatsoever from outside. Protectorate officers tend often to become rather professional and mysterious and to regard things Chinese as beyond the comprehension of ordinary mortals.

(c) The steady growth of an ultra pro-Malay and anti-immigrant feeling amongst the men who became Residents and Advisers between the two wars. It is they who, in the absence of any sort of Executive Council for the F.M.S. and U.M.S., are H.E.'s advisers outside the Colony. Put shortly, their attitude

===== Page 33 =====
It is that the prosecuting power has let down the Malays by permitting the admission of foreigners more rapidly than the Malays were being fitted to hold their own with them. They felt it their particular duty to hamper as much as possible the increase of Chinese influence in Malaya.

(25) Officers of the Malayan Civil Service who have served in the Chinese and Labour departments are not without a good deal of sympathy with the feelings of the Residents. They all agree that further immigration into Malaya needs to be carefully controlled. They believe that the domiciled Indian and Chinese communities in Malaya support this policy in the best interests of all races in Malaya, and that a fertile country like Malaya, in which life and property was secure, situated within four days sail of Java, India and China, the three most densely populated and populous countries in the world, could and should pick and choose whom she will admit. Before I left Malaya one at least of the Residents, Mr. Cowgill, expressed on paper the view that my proposals for nominated, controlled immigration offered a solution fair to everyone. Since I have retired I have tried to envisage what changes are likely to have occurred and to occur in Malaya in the future and I still think that this is the solution.

(26) I know that these views are in opposition to those held up to 1941 by Mr. Jordan, S.C.A., S.S. and F.M.S., who held that (a) the quota system gave Malaya the properly balanced cross-section of the Southern Chinese needed in the country and (b) that it was impossible to set up simple machinery to pick and choose aspiring immigrants. Mr. Jordan's opinion was based on the difficulty of dealing with Chinese and on the fact that the

===== Page 34 =====
Chinese Government would resent any steps which we took and would use them as an excuse to interfere in Malayan affairs. In reply to (a) I would say that the 'mystery' of Chinese work must be exploded. Many European employers in Malaya were working Chinese on check roll successfully and did recruit them and were willing to do so. Chinese employers had no doubt that a nomination system could be made to work. As a newly joined cadet, I was attached to the Kuala Lumpur protectorate at a time when there was a depression and many wages disputes coming before the Protector. My chief, the late Mr. A. M. Pountney, had to go into hospital for three weeks, leaving me, who had only been two months in the country, the sole Civil Servant in the Protectorates of Selangor, Negri Sembilan, and Pahang. When he returned, all current labour cases had been disposed of and there were no repercussions. For a year before I left Malaya, I had a D.C.L. (Chinese) attached to my office as H.E. was working towards the handling of labour affairs of all races in one department. It was found that there was but little difference between the problems involved. The tramway strike in Singapore and the railway workshops strike in Kuala Lumpur was carried out by both Chinese and Indians and the Labour and Protectorate officers who handled these strikes found that they both employed the same technique. As regards the question of dealing with a non-British government, it may be sufficient to point out that the proposed methods of handling Chinese and Javanese immigration were adapted not only from those which proved successful with Indians but also from those adopted by the Government of the U.S.A. in handling immigration from Europe between the two wars. In fact, treating all races in the same way and avoiding

===== Page 35 =====
Comparisons: Malaya was in a stronger position in dealing with each of the sources of our immigration. Before I left Malaya, I had some experiences of congress-minded Malayans and Indians taking a much saner view of Indo-Malay problems when they found a tendency in Malaya to regard Indian immigration not as a necessity for Malaya but rather a privilege for Indians to be accorded to them, as was the circumstance as to Chinese.

(27) Though these questions received little attention till lately, they were, I know, talked over in the twenties by my predecessor Mr. Gilman and the then S.C.A., Mr. Chapman. When the situation in the Far East makes it necessary to consider post-war problems there, I recommend that Messrs Gilman, Chapman, Ahearne, and myself should be consulted. Many of our Protectorate contemporaries thought Labour officers more fortunate than they in two respects. Controlling establishments in India brought us back to that country after our cadet days. Immigration work, of which we were in charge, gave us opportunities of administration, planning, and positive action, which gave a feeling of satisfaction and accomplishment which they, doing the more negative work of the Protectorate, never experienced. The result was that labour officers developed a more forward-looking and generally helpful attitude than did men who were kept too long in the Protectorate.

(28) I would sum my views on future immigration into Malaya thus:

(a) All immigration into Malaya needs to be controlled both for political and economic reasons. The population of India increased by 15% in the last inter-censal period, i.e., it will double every fifty years if this rate of increase is

===== Page 36 =====
(b) A system of control should be worked out applicable to all races and classes.

(c) Care should be taken that assistance to immigrate if Malaya needs labour at times in future. Mr. Gilman and I and, I believe, Mr. Chapman as long ago as 1923 thought this might take the form of subsidising British shipping companies to obtain cheap passages. This would be popular in British shipping circles.

(d) Assistance, however, should be avoided so that admission to Malaya should be regarded as a valuable privilege for which foreigners and their governments would strive instead of a boon conferred on Malaya about which they could bargain.

===== Page 37 =====
THE RUBBER GROWERS' ASSOCIATION.
(INCORPORATED)

19, Fenchurch Street,
London, E.C.3.

PLEASE ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONS TO:
"THE SECRETARY"
AND QUOTE:

(This is Latex-treated Paper.)

18th March, 1943.

Dear Mr. Gent,

I confirm the appointment with Mr. Barron for Tuesday next, 23rd instant at 11.30 a.m. in your room. The members of our sub-committee are:

Mr. H. B. E. Hake,
Mr. T. B. Barlow,
Mr. A. P. Hadow,
Mr. J. W. M. Kennedy.

With regard to the particular points we would wish to discuss, the sub-committee have seen the "interim" report you were good enough to send to Mr. Copeman, and suggest that this forms a good basis for an exchange of views, and they would like to go more thoroughly into what Mr. Barron writes, together with any information you may have received from Mr. Wilson. Another angle is the possibility of some interim understanding with the various Governments concerned on future labour requirements, and whether steps can be taken well in advance to this end.

Yours very truly,

Secretary.

G. E. J. Gent, Esq., C.M.G., D.S.O. etc.,
Colonial Office,
Downing Street,
LONDON, S.W.1.

===== Page 38 =====
C. O.

Mr. Paskin 6/3
Major Orde Barron 6/3
Sir C. Higg 8/3
Mr. G. E. J. Gent 8/3
Mr. G. L. M. Clauson
Mr. C. J. Jeffries

Sir A. Dawe
Sir W. Battershill
Permt. U.S. of S.
Parly. U.S. of S.
Secretary of State

For Mr. Gent's signature.

2 DRAFT Letter

H. F. Copeman, Esq., Rubber Growers Association

Dear Copeman,

This is just a line to let you know that Barron is now in England and will be happy to come up to Town to give us the benefit of his advice on Malayan labour problems. You and some of your colleagues would no doubt find it useful to have a talk with Barron and we shall be happy to arrange it at the Colonial Office if you could let me know some convenient time on (say) Tuesday, 16th, or the morning of Thursday, 18th March.

If there are any particular points [POSSIBLY MISSING]

===== Page 39 =====
Points which you would wish to discuss with Barron, it would be useful if you could let me have a note of them in advance so that I could pass them on to him in Yorkshire.

Yours sincerely,

(Signed) G. E. J. Gent

===== Page 40 =====
C. O.

Mr. Paskin 6/3 F.

Mr.

Mr. G. E. J. Gent.

Mr. G. L. M. Clauson.

Mr. C. J. Jeffries.

Sir A. Dawe.

Sir W. Battershill.

Permt. U.S. of S.

Parly. U.S. of S.

Secretary of State.

For Mr. Paskin's signature.

2 DRAFT. Letter.

Lt. Col. F.G. French,
(M.O.11),
War Office.

My dear French,

This is just a line to let you know that Barron, who was Controller of Labour in Malaya until the summer of 1941, has come over from Dublin and is staying in Yorkshire for a short time. He will be available for consultation in London about the 17th March, though we might perhaps persuade him to come up on Monday, 15th, if necessary. I assume that you would like to have the opportunity of hearing what he has to say about labour matters in Malaya, and we shall be very glad to arrange a time to

===== Page 41 =====
To suit your convenience. We have written to the Rubber Growers Association, who are also anxious to have talks on labour matters, and when we have heard the time that will suit them, I will get in touch with you again, in order to arrange a further meeting for our own purposes.

Yours sincerely,

(Signed) J. J. Paskin

===== Page 42 =====
For Mr. Gent's signature.

Downing Street.
15 February, 1943.

Dear Copeman,

This is, as it were, an interim "report" to let you know the result of our approach to Barron on the question of Javanese labour arranged at our discussion on the 21st January.

Barron has not been able to give us much information on the exact stage which negotiations with the Dutch authorities had reached on the outbreak of war with Japan, as apparently he was on eight months' furlough in 1941 when the final stages of the discussions were put through. He has, however, suggested that Wilson, his predecessor as Controller of Labour, might be able to help us, and we are approaching him.

Barron has mentioned that it was his object to bring about eventually the adoption of the same system as that followed by the F.M.S. Government in the Madras Presidency, i.e., to have letters sent by Netherlands Indies labourers in Malaya to their friends and relatives in Java, who would present themselves to the F.M.S. official agent in Java for transmission to Malaya after approval by the N.E.I. Labour Department, and he says that he obtained

===== Page 43 =====
Obtained the support in these plans of the last Dutch Consul General in Malaya, who was, however, later killed in 1942.

As regards the legislative position, we have, with Barron's assistance, traced in the minutes of the Federal Council the passing of a Bill to amend the Labour Code to enable the use of the Indian Immigration Fund for the import etc. of N.E.I. labour, and although we have no copy of the enactment as finally passed, its purport can be gained from the enclosed extracts from the minutes of the Council for the 20th November, 1941. Barron has told us, however, that the passing of the Bill was coupled with an undertaking by the High Commissioner that a separate Fund would be established in due course, and that any advance to this from the Indian Immigration Fund would be treated as a loan. The object of this undertaking was to allay opposition in Indian quarters to utilise authority in effect claimed to be a Trust Fund for the benefit of Indian labourers.

Thirdly, Barron has given us his view that there is no doubt that the quickest and best source of supply of labour to be got going at the earliest possible moment after the cessation of hostilities in Malaya would be the Madras Presidency, although he recognises that one will have to face a settlement of earlier differences with the Government of India, and if no settlement could be reached, it would be necessary to turn altogether to the Dutch East Indies, and to negotiate for the adoption of an analogous system to that on which labour was previously imported from India. Barron clearly regards the former system of obtaining Javanese labour through a private organisation as being unsatisfactory on the grounds of slowness and expense. He has, however, stressed that while China would be outside any such purview, the importance of the big families of Chinese workers in Malaya and their rapidly increasing importance as a local source of labour should not be overlooked.

I will get in touch with you again when we have heard further from Wilson.

Yours sincerely,

(Signed) G. E. J. GENT.

===== Page 44 =====
C.O.

Mr. Monson 2.43.

Mr.

Mr.

Mr. G. E. J. Gent 12/5.

Mr. G. L. M. Clauson.

Mr. C. J. Jeffries.

Sir A. Dawe.

Sir W. Battershill.

Permt. U.S. of S.

Parly. U.S. of S.

Secretary of State.

For Mr. Gent's signature.

2 DRAFTS

J. M. BARRON, ESQ.
(Address at 17).

Downing Street,
15 February 1943.

Dear Barron,

Many thanks indeed for your very useful letter of 27th January about the question of labour for a reconstructed rubber industry in Malaya.

We are getting in touch with Wilson regarding the negotiations with the Dutch, and when you are yourself ready to come over and have a talk with us we will certainly get in touch with the British Permit Office at Dublin.

Yours sincerely,
(Signed) G. E. J. GENT.

===== Page 45 =====
My dear Wilson,

Thank you for your letter about talks to troops on Malaya. I will send you as soon as possible such official proclamations as may be useful to you.

There is another point which I have exchanged letters with Barron about, and that is the state of the negotiations or arrangements which were being fixed up between the F.M.S. Government and the N.E.I. Government as to Javanese labour for Malaya. There were negotiations going on in Singapore with the N.E.I. Consul General, but we had no very clear idea as to how far they had gone before the end of 1942. If you could spare time to jot me down a few notes on Javanese labour for Malaya and what, if any, concrete results had issued from the negotiations, I should be much obliged. I suppose you do not

C. WILSON, ESQ.

===== Page 46 =====
Not come to London nowadays, but if you do it would be very helpful to me to have a talk with you about this and some other matters.

X X X

(Sgd.) G.E.J. Gent.

===== Page 47 =====
28 January, 1943

My dear Costar,

I passed on to Mr. Barron the letter from Gent enclosed in your letter of the 22nd January. Barron called this morning and left with me the enclosed envelope addressed to Gent containing his reply. Perhaps you would be good enough to pass it on to Gent.

Yours ever,

(Signed) W. C. HANKINSON

N.E. Costar, Esq.

===== Page 48 =====
COPY
CONFIDENTIAL.

Harap Farm,
Magillstown,
Swords,
Co. Dublin.
Eire.

27th January, 1943.

Dear Gent,

As far as my memory and information serve me, my answers to the queries in your letter dated the 21st January in your correspondence 50772/43 are as follows:

1. I understood from my predecessor, Mr. Charles Wilson (31 Ulsterville Avenue, Belfast), from whom I took over as Controller of Labour in July 1941 on my return from 8 months furlough, that our Consul-General in the Netherlands Indies (N.I.) had approached the N.I. Government and obtained a favourable reply on the subject of recruiting labour. However, I never saw any official correspondence in 1941 or previously and could not say what was the scope of the negotiations and how far our long-standing arrangements were effected. Mr. Wilson would probably be in a better position to supply information. For many years, we had been allowed to obtain labour on the same basis as Sumatran planters, i.e., we granted permission to estates to apply to the N.I. Government for permits, and on such permits labour was obtained through a private organisation which had N.I. official sanction. This organisation was, however, slow, very expensive and had often given serious dissatisfaction by supplying unsuitable and unhealthy labour. It is true that it had in recent years improved considerably the quality of the supply, but the rate still remained slow and obviously unlikely to be able to meet a big demand. In 1941, the Malayan Labour Department granted permits for about 3000 N.E. labourers to be obtained through the same agency. It was my aim to bring about eventually the adoption of the same system as that followed by us so successfully in the Madras Presidency, i.e., to have letters sent by N.I. labourers in Malaya to their friends and relatives in Java, who would present themselves to our own official agent in Java for transmission to Malaya after

[POSSIBLY MISSING TEXT DUE TO CUT-OFF]

===== Page 49 =====
After approval by the N.I. Labour Department in 1941, I personally interviewed the last N.I. Consul-General in Malaya—the late Mr. Fein, who was killed in February 1942 when his plane en route to Australia was crashed by the Japs—and obtained his support. However, the Japs put an end to any further progress. He agreed with my view that it would be a real step forward if we could eliminate the use of the private recruiting agency, which was motivated entirely by profit-interest.

2. You are correct. At the last meeting of the F.M.S. Federal Council, a bill was passed to enable the use of the Indian Immigration Fund (I.I.F.) for the import etc. of N.I. labour, but it was coupled with an undertaking by H.Cr. Sir Shenton Thomas that a separate fund would be established and any advance to this from the I.I.F. would be treated as a loan. This undertaking was given on my recommendation, in view of the furious opposition from all Indians to what they termed a proposal to utilise dishonestly what was in effect—they claimed—a trust fund for the benefit of the Indian labourer. The Indian press in India and Malaya was most virulent on the subject, and the Government of India cabled and also wrote a dispatch to the Government of the Colony. In making my recommendation, I was not influenced by the claim that the I.I.F. was a trust fund for the Indian labourer. Such a claim was manifestly absurd, although I must admit it was sincerely and strongly advocated by a lawyer, Mr. Sarmy, an Indian member of the S.S. Leg. Council, an ex-service-man, and one of the most moderate and reasonable men I have ever met. I was influenced in the main by purely political reasons. The feeling of Indians towards Europeans has been strained badly as a result of the unfortunate strikes and bloodshed among Indian labourers in Selangor in the first half of 1941, and the cry that an "Indian trust fund was to be filched by the employers and the Malayan Government" would have exacerbated the situation, impaired the war effort in India, and aroused a dangerous anti-British movement in India. Discontented Indians were eager for a red-herring. From the time when the Government of India (in 1938) placed a ban upon the migration of Indians to Malaya, feelings on both sides had been growing more bitter, and the Indian influence in Malaya had to a considerable extent become subversive, particularly among Indian labourers, for whose strikes in 1941 the Indian leaders were mostly to blame, though European employers were also by no means free from responsibility.

===== Page 50 =====
3. If we could compose our differences (Malayan) with the Government of India, there is no doubt that the quickest and best source of supply would be the Madras Presidency. The Malayan Labour Department's depots, staff, and organisation were ideal and should be easily revivable. In normal times they were able to secure over 100,000 immigrants in 6 months from India. If the floodgates were opened, we would certainly need a big influx, for the wastage since 1939 must be considerable and a large number of Indian labourers must now be straining at the leash to get back to their villages. I cannot guess how far the experiences of labourers under the Japs will affect their willingness to return to Malaya, but in the long run, the superior conditions in the latter country are bound to attract the worker from the grinding village-poverty in India, a poverty which is growing worse annually as the population mounts up.

I am certain, however, that drastic improvements in labour conditions will have to be made. Urban labour conditions in Malaya are, to my mind, bad and there are serious arrears of housing programmes. The wage rates are too low and there are few amenities. On many estates, housing is still poor, though slumps and wars have been the principal causes of this. If the negotiations with the Government of India break down, we will have to turn altogether to the N.I. and negotiate for the adoption of the Malayan Labour Department's Indian system under which recruiting agencies are dispensed with and friends and relatives emigrate to join their brethren freely - a system which has the unqualified support of the League of Nations.

China is outside our purview. In any survey of labour conditions in Malaya, we must not of course overlook the big families of Chinese workers and their rapidly increasing importance as a local source of labour. Within the past 10 years, estates have been relying more and more on neighbouring villages or even Chinese settlements on the estates themselves for Chinese labour.

I hope I have not written too much above. If I have, you are lucky, for I lost three cases full of photographs, pamphlets, memoranda, and original documents in Malaya - the accumulation of 28 years. I shall probably be unlucky tomorrow, as I have rheumatism in my hands. I would dearly like to be able to visit London and have a discussion with you, and to facilitate this when I am in a position to go.

===== Page 51 =====
I should be grateful if you would desire the British Permit Office in Dublin to accept my application for a permit at any time. At the moment, I cannot go, for I am in charge of the farm where I reside and can't find a substitute just yet. Meantime, I have also to get rid of lumbago and rheumatics, my firmest attachments in my first Irish winter for 31 years.

With all best wishes,

Yours sincerely,

(Sgd.) J.M. BARRON.

P.S. Have you by any chance invited C.D. Ahearne (formerly Federal Secretary F.M.S., retired in 1939) to visit you for a discussion? He is crazy to do something to help in this war but cannot secure any offer. He was the ablest of our Civil Servants in Malaya in my time and is as keen and brainy as ever.

(Intld.) J.M.B.

===== Page 52 =====
1. I understood from my predecessor - Mr. Charles Wilson (31 Walleville Avenue, Belfast), from whom I took over as controller of labour in July 1941, on my return from South Furlough - that Mr. Thomson, Consul-General in the Netherlands, had afforded the N. Government and obtained a favorable reply on the subject of recruiting labour. However, I never saw any official correspondence in 1941 or previously and could not say what was the scope of the negotiations and how far existing arrangements were affected. Mr. Wilson would probably be in a better position to supply information.

For many years we had been allowed to obtain labour on the same basis as Sumatran planters. Permission was granted to register to apply to the N. Government for permits, and on such permits labour was obtained through a private organisation which had N. official sanction. This organisation was, however, short, very expensive, and had often given serious dissatisfaction by providing unsuitable and unhealthy labour. It is true that it had in recent years improved considerably the quality of the supply, but the latest [POSSIBLY MISSING WORDS] is short and obviously unlikely to be able to meet a big demand.

In 1941 the Malayan Labour Dept granted permits for about 3,000 N. labourers to be obtained through the same agency. It was my aim to bring about eventually the adoption of the same system as that followed by us so successfully in the Madras Presidency. That is, to have letters sent by N. labourers in Malaya to their friends and relatives in Java, who would present themselves to our official in Java for transmission to Malaya after approval by the N. Labour Department. I personally intervened with the last N. labourer.

===== Page 53 =====
General in Malaya - the late Mr. Felin who was killed in February 1947 when his plane en route to Australia crashed by the Tafos - and obtained his suffrage, but the Tafos fruit an aid to any further progress. He agreed with my need that it would be a real step forward if we could eliminate the use of the forced recruiting agency which was motivated entirely by profit-interest.

2. You are correct. At the last meeting of the Frys Federal Council, a bill was passed to enable the use of the Indian Immigration Fund (I.I.F.) for the import of N.I. labour, but it was coupled with an undertaking by Mr. Sir Sheinton Thomas that a separate fund would be established, and any advance to this from the I.I.F. would be treated as a loan. This undertaking was given on my recommendation, in view of the furious opposition from all Indians to what they termed a professional white despotism, what was in effect - they claimed - a trust fund for the benefit of the Indian labourer. The Indian press in India and Malaysia was most virulent on the subject, and the Government of India cabled and also wrote a dispatch to the Government of the Colony. In making my recommendation, I was not influenced by the claim that the I.I.F. was a trust fund for the Indian labourer. Such claim was manifestly about, although I must admit it was sincerely and strongly advocated by a lawyer, Mr. Sanny, an Indian member of the S.S. leg. Council, an ex-Serviceman, and one of the most moderate and reasonable men I have ever met. I was influenced in the main by purely political reasons. The feeling of Indians towards Europeans has been shattered badly as a result of the infiltrate strikes and bloodshed among Indian labourers in Selangor in the first half of 1941, and the cry that an "Indian trust fund was to be filched by the emigrants and the Malaysian forces" would have exacerbated the situation, infuriated the Government effort in India.

===== Page 54 =====
and arouses a dangerous anti-British movement in India. Discontented Indians were eager for a red herring. From the time when the Government of India (in 1938) placed a ban upon the migration of Indians to Malaya, feelings on both sides had been growing more bitter, and the Indian influence in Malaya tended to a conducive intent to become subversive, particularly among Indian laborers for whose strife in 1941 the Indian leaders were mostly to blame, though European employers were also by no means free from responsibility.

3. If we conceive our differences (Malaya) with the Government of India, there is no doubt that the quickest and best source of supply won't be the Madras Presidency. The Malayan labor department's efforts, staff, and organisation were ideal and should be easily revivable. In normal times they were able to secure over 100,000 immigrants in lunates from India. If the floodgates were opened we would certainly need a big influx, for the worst since 1939 must be considerable and a large number of Indian laborers must now be claiming at least to get back to their villages. I cannot estimate how far the experiences of laborers under the taxes will affect their willingness to return to Malaya, but in the long term the superior conditions in the latter country are bound to attract the worker from the fading village poverty in India, a poverty which is growing worse annually as the population mounts up. I am certain, however, that drastic improvements in labor conditions will have to be made. Urban labor conditions in Malaya are, to my mind, poor, and there are serious arrears of housing programmes. The wage rates are too low and there are few amenities. On many estates housing is still poor, though slumps and wars have been the principal causes of this.

===== Page 55 =====
If the negotiations with the Govt of India break down, we will have to turn collectively to the N! and negotiate for the adoption of the Malaysian labour dispute Indian system under which recruiting agencies are dispensed with and friends or relatives emigrate to join their northern freely — a system which lessens the inequalities supported by the League of Nations. China is outside our purview.

In any survey of labour conditions in Malaya, we must not overlook the big families of Chinese workers and their rapidly moving influence as a local source of labour. Within the past 10 years, states have been relying more and more on neighbouring villages or even the settlements on the estates themselves for their labour.

I hope I have not written too much above. If I have, you are lucky, for most cases are full of photographs, pamphlets, memoranda and original documents in Malaya — the accumulations of 28 years. I shall probably be unlucky to miss, as I have rheumatism in my hands.

I would dearly like to be able to visit London and have a discussion with you, and to facilitate this when I am in a position to go. I should be grateful if you would desire the British Permit Office in Dublin to accept my application for a permit at any time. At the moment I cannot go, for I am in charge of the farm where I reside and want a substitute pass yet. Memorandum: I have also to get rid of humbugs and rheumatics, my firmest attachments in my first winter for 31 years.

With all best wishes,

P.S. Have you by any chance visited elsewhere?

(formerly Federal Secretary, first refreshed in 1934) to visit you for a discussion? He is crazy to do something to help in this star but cannot

===== Page 56 =====
53 Secure any offer. He was the ablest of our civil servants in Malaya in my time, and is as keen and brave as ever.

L. B.

===== Page 57 =====
DRAFT AND RECORD COPY

LETTER SENT

REGISTERED No.

DATE

DRAFT

MR. Monson 23.1.43.

MR.

MR.

Colonial Office,
Downing Street, S.W.1.
22nd January, 1943.

Dear Scott,

We are anxious, for the purpose of discussions on various aspects of reconstruction policy in Far Eastern territories, and in particular as regards the labour supply problem in Malaya, to get in touch with somebody who was conversant with discussions which were carried on during 1940 and 1941 between the Federated Malay States Government and the Netherlands East Indies authorities (mainly, we understand, through the Netherlands Consul General in Singapore). In this connection we would be grateful if the Foreign Office could let us know whether H.M. Consul General at Batavia or one of his staff is available in this country to give us advice and information about these negotiations, and/or whether there

To

A.L. SCOTT, ESQ.
F.O.

(6094) Wt. 25403—113 40,000 ea. 2 sorts 9/40 T.S. 695

===== Page 58 =====
There is in this country any official Netherlands East Indies representative who was concerned with those discussions.

Yours sincerely,

(Sgd.) W.B.L. Monson.

===== Page 59 =====
Dear Barron,

In connection with the reconstruction problems of Malaya, to which we and the rubber industry are giving thought, we wondered whether you would help us with information and advice on the following points.

1. What was the stage of the negotiations between Singapore and Batavia as to immigration of Javanese labour at the time of the outbreak of war with Japan?

2. Was legislation passed in the F.M.S. about the use of the Indian Immigration Fund for purposes connected with Javanese labour? (I believe that the second reading of an amending Bill came up in the Federal Council a month or two before the outbreak of war, viz. October-November, 1941).

J.M. BARRON, ESQ.

===== Page 60 =====
3. Have you yourself formed any particular views about the manner in which labour supply could be got going at the earliest possible moment after the cessation of hostilities?

I don't know whether you ever come to London these days, or have any visit here in prospect, but if you do I am sure that it would help us immensely to have a talk with you about these and kindred questions.

With all good wishes,

Yours sincerely,

(Sgd.) G.E.J. Gent.

===== Page 61 =====
50788

===== Page 62 =====
Post-war labour supply: discussions with Rubber Growers' Association. 1943. MS Records of the British Colonial Office CO 273/671/8. The National Archives (Kew, United Kingdom). State Papers Online Colonial, link.gale.com/apps/doc/UGKYMS959516199/SPOC?u=nuslib&sid=bookmark-SPOC&xid=ceee32ba. Accessed 1 Mar. 2026.

Gale Document Number: GALE|UGKYMS959516199

