===== Page 1 =====
CLOSED UNTIL CO.273/678
51007
1945-6

Report on Malayan Labour on Bangkok-Moulmein Railway.

Previous

Subsequent

Rosson. 2014
Mr. Morgan
R204

CO.273/678/1

FILE A.

===== Page 2 =====
1. Finding Report on Malaya Labour, Bangkok-Moreh Railway.

25/11/45.

===== Page 3 =====
2. To Australian New Zealand (short)
(having 392)

Transferred to

25048/1/46.

Putty.

W. S. Hoyle
19/4/1946

===== Page 4 =====
As I was in command of 'K' Force—a P.O.W. medical force—which was sent from Changi, Singapore to Siam to look after Halayan Sabah, unfortunate victims of the Japanese to work on the Bangkok-Moulmein railway.

I have prepared a report principally for the Crime Commission but it may be that you find some interest therein.

I enclose a copy.

The Under Secretary of State
Colonial Office
Eastern Depot
Downtown St. S.W.1

Your student servant,
R. Boulard

Mayor (M.O.)
John Volunteer Engineer

===== Page 5 =====
MALAYAN LABOUR ON BANGKOK-MOULMEIN RAILWAY

The fall of Singapore and of the Dutch East Indies threw into the hands of the Imperial Japanese Army large bodies of skilled and unskilled prisoner-of-war labour, which was almost immediately set to the construction of about 410 kilometres of railway from Ban Pong, east of Bangkok in Siam, to Tambusaya, south of Moulmein in Burma, a work which when completed afforded continuous Siam-Burma rail communication.

From June 1942 to March of the following year about 60,000 prisoners of war were brought to this task from Malaya and the D.E.I., and thereafter the introduction of Malayan labour (Indian, Chinese, Malay and, in much smaller numbers, Eurasian) commenced, a constant stream being maintained from March to December 1943. After an interval there was a resumption of the flow, the last arrivals being possibly in the late months of 1944.

The I.J.A. authorities stated that they had destroyed all pertinent documents and it is therefore extremely difficult to arrive at an accurate figure for the total number of labourers brought to Siam. As far as they remembered the first period of introduction, from March to December 1943, involved about 70,000 Malayan labourers and 8,000 Javanese and the second period an additional 5,000 Malayans.

(When it was pointed out to the Japanese Authorities that they had accurate records of prisoner-of-war movements and therefore it was likely that they also had accurate records of labour movements, they explained that International Law demanded this in the case of prisoners of war, but that there was no necessity for such records in respect of movement of free labour.)

A general impression prevails that the body of labour transported to Siam was much greater than these figures indicate, and while various statements would appear to confirm this, there is as yet no conclusive evidence.

(a) A Japanese corporal, attached to a Japanese HQ at Appuron, Burma, when speaking of the difficulties encountered by the Japanese in the building of the railway, is reported to have instanced the fact that 250,000 Malayan and 100,000 Javanese labourers were brought to work on the line, but that 170,000 had died. This statement has not been confirmed.

(b) A Malayan overseer of Malayan labour is reported to have stated that of 80,000 Malayan labourers introduced 50,000 had died by October 1943. A more credible statement but the evidence on which it is founded is unknown.

(c) Other overseers, at a later date, are reputed to have suggested 100,000 deaths among Malayan labourers.

Of the 60,000 prisoners of war working on the line about 50,000 were transported by rail from Singapore.

===== Page 6 =====
To Siam during a period of about ten months. For labour, the first and main period of introduction was of about the same duration, and it is unlikely that, from transport considerations, the rate of introduction could have been more than doubled or at the limit trebled.

Possibly 100,000 Malayan labourers were transported to Siam, but this figure is given with considerable reserve.

To recruit this labour, the I.J.A., through the Japanese Labour Controllers in the various States, offered attractive terms to the Malayan population which, as a result of the complete cessation of trade and industry, was in considerable degree unemployed. A three or six months' contract with return to Malaya on completion, wages ranging from one to two dollars per day for unskilled labour and higher rates for the skilled workman, an initial bonus on signing the contract, allowances to dependents in Malaya including an assured rice supply—as time went on an important consideration—issue of clothing while in Siam and medical attention appear to have been the main terms, but these, even in a community where unemployment was rife, did not appear to have the desired yield, and they were soon supplemented by other more forceful measures.

Many individuals, employed under the Japanese in military or naval ancillary services or on public works, were persuaded to accept transfer to work on the railway in Siam and Burma or were, without circumlocution, merely transferred there.

The Malays from the kampongs recognising the inevitable compulsion lying behind the pseudopoliteness of the Japanese in putting forward this project responded frequently with an equally characteristic false enthusiasm.

Chinese leaders and headmen of villages were in some cases merely ordered to produce a quota of 'volunteers' for the work.

Similar steps were taken in the case of rubber estate populations, the responsibility being largely put on the Asiatic superintendents of the estates, who in many cases prior to the war had been clerks or field subordinates.

The proffering of free or cheap toddy was a satisfactory bait for the Indian labourer, and the susceptible who accepted this Japanese hospitality were netted for Siam.

The rounding up of dispersing cinema audiences afforded a simple method for collecting labour.

And finally the literal netting of labour. It has been reported that in Singapore simultaneous sweeping with nets from both directions in a busy street afforded a catch from which those with no evidence of Japanese employment [POSSIBLY MISSING].

===== Page 7 =====
In Singapore were railed to Siam.

We may consider here how far the promises and conditions of service were implemented. Wages were in most cases paid regularly but the relatively high rate was in a very large number of cases offset by stoppage during periods of sickness, which were many and prolonged. As far as is known, obligations to dependents in Malaya were generally met. Clothing and comforts distributions were very much of the 'token' variety so characteristic of Japanese activity in every sphere. In the course of a year, the labourer, irrespective of his nationality be it noted, received a sarong of the flimsiest and cheapest kind, while a few favourites—mostly Malays who played the 'polite' game with the Japanese better than the others, who acclaimed the ideas and suggestions of the Japanese with a more convincing air of enthusiasm and who laughed most readily at the crude 'wit'—might receive a slightly less shoddy shirt or a pair of shorts. In the cold weather, a distribution of sacks in lieu of blankets has been known.

The most clamant outcry by the labourer—indicative of how little he enjoyed his work in Siam—was against the indefinite prolongation of his period of service. Many who had entered Siam on a three- or six-month contract in March 1943 were still in Siam or Burma in 1945. Whether the Japanese authorities ever had any intention of adhering to the period of the contracts is uncertain, but there is evidence that in March 1944 they had a scheme to repatriate 20,000 Malayan labourers and to recruit a further 25,000. A start was made, but after only a very limited number of labourers (mostly effete by reason of chronic illness) had been repatriated the scheme was interrupted probably because of transport difficulties and/or fear of the reaction on public opinion of the return of a large number of labourers in extremely bad physical condition and of the non-return of the very large numbers who had died. It was noted that in Siam precautions were taken by the Japanese to prevent the new arrivals from Malaya having intercourse with those who had spent a period on the railway and were now crowding the base hospitals.

The journey to Siam, made in overcrowded (30 or more to a waggon) unventilated steel waggons, with no provision for proper rest, with irregular and poor meals at stopping places where no adequate sanitary arrangements had been made, placed a considerable initial strain on the labour and undoubtedly played a part in the genesis of disease. Arrival at Ban Pong marked but the first—and in most cases the easiest—stage of the journey, for after brief documentation at this transit camp the labourers were allotted in batches to the various Butais (units of

===== Page 8 =====
The Japanese Railway Field Company was entrusted with various types of work at different parts of the line and had to proceed to the various Butai camps along the line under construction.

It is obvious that the topographical and sociological features of the country through which the railway was to pass would have an important bearing on the welfare and health of the labour employed, insofar as they determined to some extent the nature and arduousness of the work to be performed, the facility with which supplies could be brought up, the nature of water supplies, and the incidence of disease such as malaria. The projected line ran westward from Ban Pong for perhaps 150 kilometres across an extensive plain of padi fields, crossing the Meklong at Tamakan. Thence it followed the valley of the Keanoi in a general northwesterly direction through hilly, at times mountainous, country, gradually climbing to reach the summit at the Three Pagoda Pass near the Siam-Burma border. Descending through hilly country, the railway turns westward to link with the pre-existing line at Tambusaya. The first stretch across the plain runs through cultivated and populated land with some roads, so that the construction problems presented are simple, supply is easy, and in the general absence of dangerous anophelines from the padi fields, malaria is not so likely to be a serious problem. The central section running through virgin jungle without roads and practically no population, of steep and irregular contour, presented many serious constructional difficulties—cuttings, earth and rock, embankments, viaducts, bridges—difficulties which obviously would impose considerably intensified strain on the workmen employed. Furthermore, supplies in this area were difficult, the river being available only in certain seasons. Malaria was widespread. The Moulmein section presented constructional and supply problems of an intermediate grade.

Just as the factors considered above exercised their greatest malignity on the health and wellbeing of the labour engaged on the difficult centre and advanced section of the line under construction, so the effects of the monsoon were felt most severely in the same zone, as the period of most intensive advanced constructional work coincided with the wet monsoon of 1943. The work was pressed on despite weather conditions and supply difficulties were intensified. Disease was prevalent. The experience of much of the labour on this section of the line in 1943 was one of almost unbelievable hardships.

While large forces of Siamese and Burmese were also engaged, these were mainly allotted to work at their respective ends of the line. The brunt of construction in the difficult central section fell on the prisoners of war and on the imported Malayan labour.

===== Page 9 =====
Those gangs of Malayan labourers who, on their arrival, were fortunate enough to be allotted to the section of the line already completed (by prisoners of war) immediately west of Ban Pong and on the plain, were indeed fortunate. Their destination could be reached by rail with a minimum of discomfort; they were living in cultivated areas with villages nearby, and their work of maintenance was generally of a moderate degree of severity. Those whose lot it was to travel to more advanced sections of the line experienced extreme hardships. Many of the camps had to be reached on foot, the marches often lasting a week or more. Halting camps — where they existed — were quite inadequate, were without sanitary installation or arrangements, so that they and the surrounding areas quickly became revoltingly contaminated and a constant threat to all subsequent users of the camp and to all living in the neighbourhood. These camps were without proper water supply or adequate sleeping accommodation, and the food provided was generally poor. Such conditions, dangerous enough in fine weather, became almost unbearable under the constant rains of the monsoon, the labourers, including women and children, loaded with all their possessions, trudging through rain and mud by day and barely protected from them by night. With every known tenet of hygiene ignored, the appearance and spread of disease was inevitable. Dysentery and cholera spread through these ragged columns, labourers fell out and died by the roadside or dragged themselves to a less public death in the nearby jungle. It is no matter for surprise that many of these columns lost from one-eighth to one-fifth of their strength before reaching their destination.

That the Japanese authorities should have sanctioned the introduction of women and children under the conditions likely to prevail on engineering works of this nature in unopened jungle terrain indicates complete failure to appreciate the epidemiological potentialities of such a situation.

Arrival at their camps brought little, if any, relief to many gangs of labourers. The labour population, strained and weakened by long marches under extremely adverse conditions, was thrust generally into overcrowded tents (frequently erected by the labourers themselves on arrival) in hastily improvised camps with no hygiene organisation or staff, and practically without an interval for settling were precipitated into a period of intense hard work, and driven to it and kept at it by the bamboo of the Japanese overseers. Monsoon rains prevailed but that made no difference in the long hours imposed by the Japanese. Cholera and dysentery, present at the time of arrival, spread easily under conditions of insanitary overcrowding until in many camps disease

===== Page 10 =====
The conditions were practically pandemic. Neither considerations of weather nor disease were allowed to hinder the pace of work; sick individuals who could walk were frequently driven out to work with others. Such conditions, to a greater or lesser degree, with frequent manifestations of willful mental and physical cruelty by the Japanese towards the laborers, characterized the period of intensive work until November 1943. In the worst camps, the laborers were dazed by conditions, behaving as if they had lost volition, obeying automatically, apparently oblivious to conditions or their probable fate.

Conditions in these primary camps were generally dreadful. Little or no site preparation was ever made. The tents were of poor quality (compressed paper) and when wet, easily torn, affording little protection. They were grossly overcrowded; open latrines were dug without regard to kitchens or water supply, and isolation tents for dysentery or cholera were often alongside the general camp. Undergrowth or jungle in many cases ran up practically to the walls of the tents and became dumping grounds for all rubbish, even, in some cases, for the dead.

It was into such conditions that 'K' Force arrived in July 1943. This Force, commanded by me, consisted of thirty medical officers and two hundred medical other ranks. Its reception at Camburi in Siam was marked by a lecture from Col. Hayakawa, head of the Hygiene or Medical Organisation on the railway, on our functions as medical parties to assist in the care of the laborers on the line, and, rather threateningly and in dictatorial style, on our treatment in case of shortcomings. It gradually emerged that the real function of 'K' Force was to assist in clearing up the epidemiological mess brought about by gross ignorance and mismanagement of mass labor movement.

The Force was split into small units, each consisting of one medical officer and several orderlies; these units were distributed to various labor camps.

A medical force with reasonable freedom and adequate equipment might, through carefully planned and resolute action, have achieved much to counter and control the widespread epidemic conditions prevailing. The efforts of 'K' Force and 'L' Force, which arrived later for the same task, were virtually nullified, often in advance, by circumstances beyond their control.

a. The Medical Officer and his staff generally had little contact with or access to any Japanese Medical Officer, but worked under the orders of a Japanese medical NGO or private. It is probably true to say that the

===== Page 11 =====
a. The standard of the average Japanese Medical Officer was low and consequently was generally averse to contact and revealing discussion with his British counterpart.

b. The opinion of the Medical Officer was seldom sought on matters of health policy, and if, in any very obvious situation, suggestions were offered they were seldom accepted.

c. The efforts of the Medical Officers were frequently vetoed or frustrated by independent action on the part of the Japanese.

d. The medical personnel of 'K' Force had generally but restricted access to the labourers, the period allowed in camps being limited to perhaps one hour daily or less, depending on the patience or impatience of the accompanying Japanese medical orderly or guard. In general, only a small part of the time of a small part of the force was spent on medical and health work among the labourers. The O.R. personnel (and sometimes even the Medical Officers) spent a considerable part of their time in general fatigues around the Butai and labourer camps (building, digging latrines, swill pits and graves and other more general tasks in kitchens etc).

e. Many of the Medical Officers were subjected to degrading and insulting treatment in that (i) some had at times to work in Japanese kitchens, (ii) they were made to help in general fatigues, often involving heavy manual labour, along with the O.R.'s, (iii) occasionally they were made to act as servants to Japanese. One Medical Officer was made nurse to a Japanese cholera case while at the same time he was regarded as batman and general factotum by a number of contacts housed in the same hospital. The Medical Officer had to sleep beside the cholera case.

f. There was universal inadequacy, and in the majority of camps and hospitals, extreme inadequacy of medical equipment and supplies so that medical skill was rendered to a great extent ineffective. Provision for the care, feeding and nursing of the sick was hardly contemplated.

g. The attitude of the Japanese to the sick was one of impatience, of anger that they should be unfit to work or unwilling to work when sick, and of complete indifference to suffering.

h. The Japanese attitude towards the medical personnel of 'K' and 'L' Forces was apparently determined by constant suspicion of subversive activity among the labourers and by an unwillingness that the labourer should see improvement in conditions as a result of their presence and medical labours.

===== Page 12 =====
It may be of interest, perhaps academic interest, to attempt to understand the general medical policy of the I.J.A. in relation to the construction of this railway. It is unlikely that a power like Japan, which had during the last century hurriedly ingested the ideas and methods of Western civilisation in large quantities, would undertake an engineering work of considerable magnitude—a work which they perhaps like to regard as the Japanese counterpart or reply to the Suez and Panama Canals—without employing, or at any rate indicating that they are conscious of, all modern medical methods of approach. The principles of the maintenance of health of the labour would appear to have been realised and a medical and hygiene organisation provided for, but in effect such organisation remained largely theoretical and, in effect, had probably but little influence on the incidence of disease. This failure may, briefly, be ascribed to (i) the complete subordination of all other activities, including medical, to the work of getting the line completed, (ii) insufficient flexibility in the medical organisation to meet changing epidemic conditions, (iii) inadequate medical supplies, and (iv) inadequate skilled personnel. Evidence of this failure will be discussed under 'Morbidity'.

Sooner or later the temporary tented camps were replaced by bamboo and attap huts and in these new areas, possibly as a result of 'K8 and 'L' Force activities, a little more attention was paid to camp arrangements and hygiene. Huts were generally about 25 feet wide with sleeping platforms, 8 feet wide, along each side and a central passage, the linear sleeping space per coolie being about 2 feet. Overcrowding was therefore the rule. Latrines were open trenches with or without attap shelter, but maintenance generally fell below reasonable standards and hygiene staffs were insufficient. Surroundings of camps were generally heavily contaminated. In the larger camps one or more huts were set aside as detention wards into which the sick were collected. There they received at best a very sketchy generally quite unspecific treatment until (a) the individual died, (b) absconded, (c) the sick increased so in number that evacuation to a labourer hospital further back on the line was necessary, or (d) the individual recovered and returned to work, a not very common event in the case of severe illness. Water supplies were seldom if ever provided, the labourer being allowed access to the nearest stream or river for all purposes.

Although all work was heavy (sleeper and rail loading and unloading, embankment building, sleeper and rail

===== Page 13 =====
Laying etc., certain types such as quarrying, stone cuttings, and bridge building were extremely arduous. During the period of intensive work in 1943, the hours of work were long, with nightwork sometimes added, and all considerations of fatigue and sickness were overridden. Physical violence was constantly applied to ensure compliance with the excessive demands of the I.J.A. These demands were quite beyond the powers of coolies debilitated by disease and on inadequate diet, and the driving of unfit labourers to work was undoubtedly the cause of many deaths.

I give here a few illustrative notes, made at interview with the medical personnel who had been attached to these various camps.

No. 1 Jungle Camp, Kinsaiook. July-August 1943. 1500 fairly fresh Malayan coolies. Leaky tents. Poor hygiene. Work on embankment construction. Food poor - small quantity rice with two or three fresh chillies. On arrival (members of 'K' Force), labourers dying at rate of 20-30 daily, mainly from bacillary dysentery (no cholera). Epidemic malaria 2 weeks after arrival. Pneumonia prevalent. On first trip round camp, 11 dead and 6 dying were found. Site of camp changed and conditions improved. Sickness fell from very high (50 percent daily) to 150 daily. Finally, reasonable camp.

Conditions such as are outlined above must have impressed even the Japanese with the necessity of taking some action, but in many cases improvement was ultimately due to exhaustion of susceptibility rather than any active preventive measures.

Hintok Camp. 1500 Malayan labourers. Engaged on embankment work. Accommodation in tents, later huts. Gross overcrowding. Hygiene - nil. Sickness - colossal. Japanese soochos buried moribund coolies. On 'driving' days, despite high sick rate, very few left in lines (the persuasive power of bamboo). During prevalence of cholera, deaths 10 to 14 daily but many never found. Cholera cases driven into jungle and abandoned.

Hintok. Another camp. 1500 Malayans. Tents bad. Hygiene very bad. Food bad. Cholera isolation in tattered tents and fragments of tents spread on bamboo. Patients on ground. No ulcer at Hintok ever cured. Conditions 'terrible'.

(This labourer camp adjoined a POW subcamp of 'H' Force which initially numbered 500 but which had fallen to 250 by deaths at the rate of about 6 per day.)

===== Page 14 =====
Upper Koncuita Camp. 12 August 1943 to 17 January 1944. Labourers started arriving same day as medical party. Soon up to 3000, but reckoned that 10 to 20 per cent of original strength was lost on the march to the camp. Labourers from Seremban, Kuala Lumpur, Taiping, and Kuala Kangsar. Few women and children. Housing 900 to a 70-metre hut (double-tiered), that is three individuals to a metre of sleeping platform about 3 metres wide. Hygiene - first months none and no staff. Food poor - a very meagre curry. Sick coolies received one meal per day. No boiled water provided. No hospital accommodation. Work railway bridge-building. At least a 12-hour day with nightwork. Sickness - October 1943 - labour force about 3000 - 1200 sick daily. In August and September 50 cases cholera with 6 recoveries. Medical supplies for first six weeks negligible. Deaths in October 1943 382. General treatment of the labourer by the Japanese bad, cruel. Sick frequently beaten out to work or without cause. Judo practised on sick coolies.

Quarry camp (between Timonta and Nike). 300 Malayans (Rantau and Bagan Serai). Huts good. Food good. Low sick rate and one death in four months.

Such satisfactory conditions are sometimes met with, particularly in the case of camps of limited size, and arise from (a) a naturally healthy area and (b) more stable conditions which can be attained if control is at all reasonable. Notes on the next camp are from the same observer.

Nike Bridge-building Camp. Observation over six months. 500 Malayan coolies. Treatment 'terrible'. Fractures from ill-treatment seen. Good huts. Food fair. Coolie mander reported coolie kicked off bridge and drowned, 20-30 suicides in six months. Deaths in six months colossal. Estimated 1500-2000 deaths in six months, the camp being constantly reinforced by new arrivals. 300 in one grave.

Chengaleya Camp. 700 Malayans (Johore and Perak). Housing reasonable huts. Hygiene at first bad. No latrines (jungle nearby). Food poor. Sickness endemic malaria. Medical supplies moderately good. Deaths 8 in 6 months. Work very hard. General treatment - Japanese completely indifferent to labourers' welfare. Sick coolies regarded as a nuisance, better dead.

73 KM Camp, Burma. 500 Burmese. Deaths 2 daily over 3 months. Conditions on arrival bad. No medical treatment for the previous 6 weeks. Sickness very high. In one month 90 per cent of the population seen with malaria. Average daily number at work circle 200.

Lonci Camp. 500 Javanese, 500 Chinese and 50 Burmese. At first labourers housed in old dilapidated huts.

===== Page 15 =====
Quite unfit for habitation and useless in the monsoon conditions (March-July 1943). High incidence of pneumonia. Hygiene at first indescribable. Most dilapidated hut, rejected by the coolies as accommodation, was pronounced the hospital. Coolies who entered it were certain to die.

The food of the labourers, on the evidence of the medical personnel who worked in the various camps, was generally 'bad' or 'poor' and seldom better than 'fair'. It was roughly on a parallel with POW food. Rice was generally sufficient (provided the coolie was not too sick to go after it) but the additional foodstuffs, essential for the maintenance of good health, were very meagre, frequently a watery pumpkin or other vegetable stew, with small quantities of dried fish in some camps and occasionally a little pickled or fresh meat. The labourer ration as laid down by the Japanese authorities may have had a bare nutritional adequacy, but as it reached the labourers' vessel it was generally quite inadequate for the maintenance of average health and practically useless for restoration after illness. The labourers had sometimes items of their rations such as sugar and peas sold to them by their Japanese superintendents, according to one report made to me.

The feeding of the sick was an even more unsatisfactory feature, as it appears to have been a general view among the Japanese that the withholding of food would deter labourers from reporting sick and would hasten their desire to recover and leave the detention wards or hospitals. The bedridden patient ran a considerable risk of not receiving any food, unless it was by the help of his friends.

Labourers generally supplemented their rations by private buying where possible (even at exorbitant prices) or by the collection of herbs and roots from the surrounding country.

Neighbouring streams or rivers provided the water supply for labourer camps but the simple and important health measure of rendering this water safe for drinking was never undertaken.

Morbidity. To the tropical epidemiologist, engineering works of magnitude carried out in hilly or mountainous jungle country with imported native labour would immediately connote large-scale disease potential and, consequently as a corollary, the necessity for carefully planned and carefully executed measures of prevention if the effects of this disease were to be minimised.

The Bangkok-Moulmein Railway was to the Japanese a work of military urgency, and they were, no doubt, not

===== Page 16 =====
Prepared to rate the life of the labourer too highly, but in the execution of the work we see, from the health standpoint, an abnegation of almost every accepted principle of preventive medicine, a defect which, resulting as it did in enormous morbidity and mortality, cannot but have had an adverse effect on the progress of the work.

The native labourer, whose nutritional margin is normally small, was, after a year on unsatisfactory rations in Singapore and a journey imposing considerable physical strain (and in many cases severe mental strain), in no condition to perform heavy manual labour on a still inadequate diet. As we have already stated, his housing was unsatisfactory and offered inadequate protection from monsoon weather and cold. Overcrowding was the rule, and hygiene was generally primeval. Stability in a population, which from both epidemiological experiment and experience is known to be a factor of great importance to the health of a community, was never attained or, if it were in some degree emerging, was immediately destroyed by the shifting demand for labour associated with railway construction. Constant movement and migration of labour is probably one of the most important factors in bringing disease over from the carrier state to clinical activity, is obviously a certain method of disseminating disease when it has arisen, and probably serves to increase the virulence of the causative organism. Even in the presence of bacillary dysentery and cholera, the Japanese made little effort to limit the movement of labour.

Furthermore, the psychological effect on the labourer of neglect and ill-treatment was evident in his failure to react energetically to conditions interfering with his welfare and comfort or to take measures for self-protection.

Cholera occurs seasonally in Siam and with the introduction of large numbers of Malayan labourers going on through the monsoon season — particularly under the defective hygienic conditions we have described — the infection of that moving labour force was inevitable. The normal procedure is to vaccinate the individual before he enters the endemic zone but in this case, although the Japanese carried out extensive inoculation after the disease had arisen, it is not known that any labourers were inoculated prior to leaving Malaya.

In July and August 1943 the disease was widespread through both POW and labour camps. In the latter, the sole steps taken by the Japanese, who were afraid of the disease and were concerned only with keeping it from their own camps, were the collection of sick and suspects (and frequently bacillary dysenteries) and their segregation and virtual abandonment in tents or huts hastily erected.

===== Page 17 =====
In the jungle, in some cases even more radical and ruthless measures were taken to eliminate cases and suspects. Such important measures as the provision of safe drinking supplies, strict camp hygiene, careful nightsoil disposal, the prohibition of movement, attention to general health, and the lightening of labour to spare fatigue and conserve resistance were hardly attempted.

The total number of deaths from cholera among Malayan labourers is unknown, but it is certain that this disease was one of the important factors in the enormous mortality which occurred in 1943. The case mortality was over 90 percent. (In POW camps, despite a pitiful lack of equipment and medical supplies, the mortality was about 50 percent.)

Bacillary dysentery was inevitably much in evidence and was the most important single cause of death in 1943. It killed both in its acute epidemic form and in its chronic form by reason of the asthenia, cachexia, and malnutrition that followed. Specific treatment available for labourers was virtually none. Epidemics drifted as they would and the individual drifted to death or into chronicity, often a slower method of reaching the same fatal termination. The position in relation to amoebic dysentery was the same.

At one stage, the central Japanese medical authorities apparently frowned on the high incidence of dysentery as shown in the periodic health returns from the various Butais. These latter found a very simple remedy: they prohibited any entries against dysenteries in all subsequent returns.

Recognising the inevitability of malaria in association with work involving considerable interference with the natural flow of water and extensive excavation in country naturally malarious and whereon large bodies of labour were engaged, the Japanese had apparently intended to deal with this disease along the lines of field work against the vector and universal quinine prophylaxis. As in other diseases, however, their activities amounted to but a token execution in the field of prevention.

Antimalaria oil was provided to all Butais, but the quantity was always inadequate and there was no one with the knowledge necessary for its scientific application. It generally served for the treatment of house drains and latrines. The incidence of malaria was quite uninfluenced.

Universal quinine prophylaxis was never carried out. The prescribed dosage (under 5 grains) was insufficient, and its administration might, in the case of a particular labour force, be carried out for a few days at most. Nevertheless, the periodic returns would probably show that the entire population had had prophylactic administration throughout the period, and it could only be assumed that the quinine issued was

===== Page 18 =====
Inadequate or was diverted to other channels. Quinine for the treatment of malaria was never available in adequate quantity. Plasmoquine, much used by the Japanese, and atebrin were not available for treatment.

Tropical ulcers of extreme size were common and an important cause of morbidity and mortality. With the ludicrous quantities of medical supplies and dressings made available by the Japanese, efficient treatment was impossible.

Deficiency diseases. Syndromes indicating deficiency of the B vitamin complex (and sometimes of A or C) were common among the labourers, particularly when debilitated by infective disease. Beriberi was a potent cause of death.

The other principal diseases met with were typhus-like fevers, pneumonias, cerebrospinal meningitis (not common), respiratory disease, blackwater fever and diarrhoeas. Injuries and wounds were frequent.

In response to the extremely high incidence of sickness in 1943 a hospital system of sorts was established. Groups of hospital huts were erected in areas where morbidity was extreme and to these, from the surrounding camps, the seriously sick were sent. By reason of overcrowding, of absence of trained staff, by non-availability of medical (and surgical) equipment and drugs the patients received but the crudest treatment and remained in these hospitals until they died or, under conditions of travel likely to put a severe strain on a seriously ill individual, was transferred to another hospital further back towards the base and might by the same process eventually reach Camburi, the coolie base hospitals. Throughout, death remained a likely termination.

The story of the hospitals is much that of the camps. The accommodation was similar and overcrowding common, with patients sometimes forced to sleep on the ground around the huts. Sanitation was frequently unattended to until conditions became unbearable and forced action on the Japanese. The food was generally bad and drinking water (or in fact water for any purpose) was highly problematical. A river might be available in the vicinity for those who could reach it. A ward staff consisted of two unskilled coolie attendants. When some of the personnel arrived at these hospitals, conditions were very bad and they

===== Page 19 =====
Not able to achieve very much because of the restrictions placed on them by the Japanese and the scarcity of medical supplies. In one department only, because the Japanese were averse to visiting these unwholesome wards, were they given any freedom of action - the dysentery wards and that known generally as the 'death-house', a ward or part of a ward into which all helpless patients were put and virtually abandoned. The medical forces did succeed in cleaning up these dreadful places and made conditions at any rate bearable for the unfortunate patients.

In one or two of the hospitals, the Medical Officers managed with improvised equipment to undertake certain forms of surgical treatment, particularly in relation to large ulcers, and for this work the Japanese did, generally somewhat reluctantly, supply some anaesthetic.

Enquiry from all medical personnel connected with these hospitals for labourers indicates a universal and constant gross shortage of supplies.

Below are given notes on some of these hospitals compiled from interviews with medical personnel serving in them.

Ban Pong Hospital. Average total patients circa 500. Ulcers (chronic) circa 200. Initially, the buildings were POW transit camp (used by K Force on arrival). Huts falling down without walls and some without sleeping platforms. In wet weather, constantly under water. Latrines under water and faeces everywhere. Food very, very bad - rice and watery vegetable. Coolies apparently received no treatment prior to the arrival of certain members of L Force. A change of Butai brought about improvement, and the hospital was shifted to a vacated Japanese hospital.

Camburi No. 2 Coolie Hospital. Average 2000 patients or more. At times gross overcrowding. 230 to a 40-metre hut. Some on ground. Conditions in dysentery ward and death-house indescribable. Food bad. Coolies sent to death-house were struck off ration strength and the only water supply was what could be given to them surreptitiously by the medical staffs. Major Murphy, AAMC, maintains that many in these wards died of thirst or starvation. Medical supplies totally inadequate. Medical staff - one MO and two orderlies to each ward. Later when K and L Forces were collected in this hospital (42 MO's and about 300 orderlies), only 2 MO's and 10 orderlies were engaged in the theatre and ulcer wards. Deaths circa 5000 in 18 months. (This is regarded by many as an underestimate.) Japanese administration bad. Complete indifference to welfare or suffering. Constant beating and maltreatment of patients for offences real or imaginary and frequent examples of gross cruelty.

===== Page 20 =====
Wanyei Hospital. Average number of patients: 1500. Maximum number: 3300. Hygiene initially very, very bad. Food very poor - rice and watery vegetable stew. Later a little meat. September 1943 - gross overcrowding with patients sleeping in the open. September was the peak month for mortality - 600 to 700 deaths. Communal graves up to forty. Total deaths of the magnitude of 4000 in one year. Japanese manifested very little interest. Ill-treatment of coolies fairly frequent.

Kinsaiook Hospital. At first tents, later huts without sleeping platforms. Finally, a move to an evacuated POW camp where accommodation was much better. At times gross overcrowding. Up to 1000 patients. Sick, evacuated from upcountry, arrived sometimes in dreadful condition and with generally some dead. Food, hygiene and medical supplies were bad. Access of medical staff to patients very limited. Hospital run by a second class Japanese private. Exorbitant prices in canteen for patients. At first, no bathing facilities. Deaths circa 2000 in 15 months. Sick frequently driven out to work around camp. 200 labourers discharged on Japanese statement for return to Malaya but put on train for Burma. The train was derailed soon after leaving with many deaths and about 50 returned to hospital suffering from fractures etc. General treatment of labourers very bad.

Tolerance, restraint and understanding treatment as elementary factors in the management and control of labour forces would appear, from their behaviour, to have been unknown to the Japanese. Or it may be that in their fancied unassailability they thought they could dispense with such principles. They, of course, had Western precedents. They failed, further, to realise that if labour is to make an economic contribution to the task in hand its health must be safeguarded by forethought in the control of conditions to which it is to be exposed, and, in the event of breakdown, by energetic and effective measures for the restoration of stable conditions. Under adverse and distasteful circumstances labour is apt to become, as it were, an amorphous unresponsive mass, which by its inertia can defeat largely the purpose for which it is employed. There was nothing humanitarian about the Japanese attitude to sickness or suffering. The sick labourer was a nuisance and if unlikely to recover quickly, better out of the way. Steps were in many instances taken to get him out of the way. Frequently the labourer took steps to interrupt an intolerable chain of events by absconding from camp or hospital or sometimes as a last resort by taking their own life. Total figures for suicides are not available but evidence indicates that they were frequent.

The basis of the Japanese attitude is probably a complex mingling of the feudal psychology of Japan and the

===== Page 21 =====
Psychology of victory in an oriental race, a complex which has no place for the more spiritual and humanitarian conceptions of higher civilisation. The resultant tendencies were probably strengthened by experience of the fear and physical punishment by which discipline is maintained in the Japanese Army and by the prominent position in consciousness to which the importance of Imperial aims (in this case the railway) were constantly kept. Many can testify to the sadistic streak manifest in the cruel treatment of animals.

Mortality. It is impossible to assess accurately the mortality but evidence generally points to a marked death rate of about 50 per cent over the period that Malayan labour was employed in Siam and Burma. Probably three-fourths of this mortality occurred in the last eight months of 1943, the principal causes being dysenteries, cholera, tropical ulcers, malaria and deficiency diseases. Major B.H. Anderson, AAMC, has supplied some figures for various forces that came under his observation.

Malacca Group A. In August '43 400. By February '44 reduced to 206.
Malacca Group B do. 268 do. do. 112.
Malacca Group C do. 240 do. do. 104.
Seremban A do. 700 do. do. 340.
Seremban B do. 380 do. do. 200.

Another Medical Officer mentions a Johore party, which 200 strong in June 1943 numbered 25 in December 1943. Again in a Nike camp the labour force is reported by a Medical Officer to have fallen from 2000 to about 1000 in a period of about two months in 1943.

The figures (estimated) for the labourer hospitals are given below.

HOSPITAL  AVERAGE NO. OF PATIENTS  PERIOD OF OBSERVATION (in months)  DEATHS
Ban Pong      800                           3                              300
Camburi I    1200                           6                             1500
Camburi II   2000                          22                             5000
Wanyei       1500                          13                             4000
Kinsaiook     500                          15                             2000
Brankassi
Takanun       650                           4                              600
Koncuita    2400                           5                             1800
Timonta     1000                           2                              200
Nike        1000                          10                             2000
Appuron      500                           7                             1200

===== Page 22 =====
For 14,950 beds over an average period of about 8 months, there were an estimated 23,000 deaths in these hospitals. For the labour camps, evidence collected in a similar manner indicates that in a labour population estimated at about 60,000, there were about 19,000 deaths, the period being somewhat unspecified but generally covering the time of highest mortality. There were, therefore, 42,000 deaths among 75,000 labourers, and it must be remembered that the members of 'K' and 'L' Forces did not come into contact with all labour camps.

It may, with a reasonable degree of certainty, be assumed that Malayan labour on the railway suffered 50,000 deaths or about half the total number of labourers involved.

A number of 'incidents' in connection with Malayan labour in Siam and Burma which came within the experience of members of 'K' and 'L' Forces were collected and submitted in a report to the War Crimes Section of Allied HQ., Bangkok and again in a report (Form Q) submitted to the O.C. Troops, H.M.T. B21 (M.V. Cilicia). It will complete this report to recapitulate these incidents, and such a summary should serve to stress the cruelty, the calculated and often gratuitous cruelty, which characterised the Japanese treatment of Malayan labour.

1. Col. Hayakawa (who addressed Medical Officers of 'K' Force on their arrival in Siam) and the other heads of the Japanese medical service on the railway is presumably responsible for

(a) Degrading and insulting treatment of many Medical Officers of 'K' and 'L' Forces - manual labour, often of a heavy nature, working in Japanese kitchens and as servants to Japanese O.R.'s, doing medical work under the direction of Japanese privates or NGO's.

(b) Lack of medical facilities for personnel of 'K' and 'L' Forces when sick.

(c) The appalling conditions prevailing in labour camps and hospitals.

(d) The criminally inadequate medical supplies for the treatment of sick labourers (and POW's).

(e) The inadequate diet supplied to labourers and particularly sick labourers.

(f) The forcing of sick to work.

(g) Extreme morbidity and an extremely high mortality, much of which could and should have been prevented.

2. The Japanese M.O. attached to Yabe Butai at Appuron in Burma in December 1943 refused to visit Major J. White,

===== Page 23 =====
I.M.S., when the latter was seriously ill. Major White died a few days later, presumably of cerebral malaria. There were other British Medical Officers (including myself) in the area who could have been called.

Reported by 4975064 L/Cpl. W.A. Larrad, Sherwood Foresters.

3. Capt. E.K. Wallace, I.M.S., and Capt. J.L. Frew, AAMC, together with eight medical orderlies, were forced to work extremely hard, carrying heavy supplies (cases of medical stores, sacks of rice, drums of oil, etc.) from the river at Wang Ka (Nike area) to another river about a kilometre distant with additional loading and unloading. They worked from daylight to dark at a distance of about 4 kilometres from their camp, this work continuing for about two months. They were constantly harassed and hurried by their guards, and men were frequently struck. (Capt. Wallace was unable to give names but states that the personnel of the Hygiene Butai to which they were attached changed three times in the period August to December 1943 and that only the fourth party discontinued this abuse of medical personnel.)

4. A British POW of 'H' Force, suffering from smallpox, was put off the train into a small hut on the hillside near Kawabura Butai camp. He was visited by a Japanese of this Butai and an Indian dresser (from Malaya), who later, while under the influence of alcohol, revealed that on Japanese instructions he had administered an overdose of morphia. The man died one hour later, late in 1943.

Reported by Capt. G.A.F.R. Gibson, who does not know the name of the Japanese.

5. Takamoto Butai Coolie Camp at Nike, August-October 1943. Conditions in this camp holding about 2000 Malayan labourers were extremely bad. Huts were dilapidated. There was no attempt at hygiene. Latrines disgraceful. Food 'dreadful'. Morbidity extremely high, about 50 percent being sick daily. Medical supplies were extremely poor. The sick were frequently driven out to work. Mortality was enormous, Capt. G.A.F.R. Gibson stating that the labour force was down to about 1000 within two months. Sgt. Pullen states that the burial pit was a horrible affair. It was a pit about 15 by 15 by 20 feet deep into which the naked bodies of men, women and children were thrown. He states that he has seen in the pit movement of limbs which was not due to rigor mortis. This camp was administered by Takamoto Butai, the name of the M.O. being Hiketa. Capt. Gibson is of the opinion, however, that this man was not actively 'bad' but was weak and therefore powerless to control the other members of the Butai.

Capt. G.A.F.R. Gibson, RAMC. 7349689 Sgt. R. Pullen, RAMC.

===== Page 24 =====
6. Timonta Coolie Hospital, January-February 1944. A 2nd class Japanese private with a 5-star Japanese did 'a fair amount of killing off of sick' immediately prior to the evacuation of the hospital on 16th February 1944. Various types of injections were given to numbers of sick labourers - injection of air into vein, a mercuric salt intravenously, overdoses of morphia - causing many deaths. There were 35 or 40 deaths in the nine days preceding evacuation, a very considerable increase on the rate prevailing previously. The Butai responsible for the hospitals was Kudo Butai (Major Kudo). The alias of the 2nd class private was 'Green Pants'. Reported by VX 50666 Pte. D.R. Boardman, AAMC. Also present was VX 37455 Pte. B.C. Wooten, 8 Div. Signals, AIF.

7. No. 2 Labourer Hospital, Camburi. A number of coolies who absconded from the hospital were brought back and were given an intravenous injection by the M.O. Takana. They were then sent to the wards and all who had been given injections died in considerable agony. Many showed signs of an extreme ulcerative stomatitis, while two, reported by Capt. Lennox, had suppression of urine. The opinion of the Medical Officers who saw the cases was that they had received a mercuric salt intravenously. Reported by Capt. W.B. Young, Malay Regt, Capt. B. Lennox, RAMC., Major P.E. Murphy, AAMC., and VX 37391 Pte. G.E. Hibberd, AAMC.

8. Tamajo. July 1943. Ten Medical Officers and about forty medical OR's, who were being marched from Kinsaiook to Nike (110 km) were billeted for a night at Tamajo in tents which were but a few yards (about 5) distant from a tent containing acute cholera cases, two of whom died during the night. It was thought that the tents in which they were billeted had previously been used for either cholera cases or suspects. Reported by Capt. R.L.G. Dawson, RAMC. Japanese medical administration responsible for the march, c/o Col. Hayakawa.

9. Nike. Bridge-building Butai (possibly Osaka Tai). Conditions in this working camp are stated to have been appalling. Deaths over six months were given as 2000 whereas the average number of labourers maintained (by constant immigration) was in the neighbourhood of 500. 20-30 suicides in the period. The treatment of the coolies was brutal, and fractures resulting from violence were seen. A mandor reported a coolie knocked off the bridge and drowned. When the Butai was moving a very sick coolie was taken by a Japanese sergeant of this Butai to the edge of the communal burial pit, hit over the head twice with a shovel and buried. Reported by Sgt. G.D. Chandlen, 2nd Cambridgeshire Regt.

===== Page 25 =====
Who was the only member of 'K' Force attached to this camp?

10. Nike Coolie Hospital. Between October 1943 and August 1944, two British POWs, suffering from typhus, were brought to the hospital, but the Medical Officer (Major Andrews, AAMC, who probably reported this case) was not allowed to see them. A dresser (named Manning) stated that he had been forced to give them an overdose of morphia. Reported by 7368972 Pte. A.A. Page, RAMC.

11. During the cholera epidemic of 1943, labourers who were marching to camps further up the line were subjected to rectal swab examination at a checking station at Kinsiayok. Every labourer, before he had time to readjust his clothing, was kicked violently by the Japanese Medical Officer, to the amusement of himself and the other Japanese. Reported by Capt. E.K. Wallace, IMS. The Hygiene Butai was responsible but the name of the Japanese Medical Officer is unknown.

12. No. 2 Coolie Hospital, Camburi. Coolies were punished for absconding by being kept standing for several hours with weights tied to the penis. Reported to me by VX 37391 Pte G.E. Hibberd, AAMC. Capt. J. Clarkson, ADC, also reported this case. Major Kudo, Head of Kudo Butai was responsible for the hospital.

13. Kinsiayok Hospital. An Indian labourer suffering from cerebral malaria was kicked in the face by a Japanese private (later a L/Cpl. known as 'Scarface'). Reported by Pte. E.W. Barber, RAMC. In the course of periodic evacuations of the sick, all except a few completely helpless patients were made to walk or crawl to the station, a distance of three or four kilometres. Reported by Capt. D. Gawn, RAMC.

14. Koncuita Coolie Hospital. Major S.C. Nardell, IMS, was struck by a Japanese private when he insisted that a POW was unfit for work as the Japanese wished to turn him out. The Japanese Medical Officer (name unknown but alias Dago Joe) struck Major Nardell across the face when the latter declined to introduce a needle into a perinephric abscess, a procedure he disapproved.

15. Hygiene Unit at Nike, November 1943. In Nike Coolie camp all cholera and dysentery cases were driven about a kilometre into the jungle and there segregated in a hut under Japanese guard. Many were [POSSIBLY MISSING].

===== Page 26 =====
Seriously ill.

A member of the Hygiene Unit, conducting rectal smear examination of all coolies on the march, found amusement in the insertion of the glass rod into the vagina of a Chinese woman labourer.

A sick coolie, a member of one of the parties marching to points further up the line, was slow in arriving at the point where rectal smear examination was being carried out. He was beaten along and when quite incapable of proceeding further was carried slung on a bamboo. He died.

Labourers accused of buying bananas in a neighbouring village were tied together by the hands (about 20 of them) and forced to walk through a swift and deep part of the river, all and particularly the shorter men being in great difficulties.

Reported to me by Sgt. G.E.D. Lewis, SSVFA.

16. Nike Coolie Camp. M.O. Hiketa until October 1943. A coolie suspected of theft was tied to a tree, flogged and struck over genitals.

Another form of punishment witnessed was the bringing of lighted bamboo into contact with body and face producing burns.

Reported by 7349689 Sgt. R. Pullen, RAMC.

17. Upper Koncuita Camp.

Sick Chinese coolies were used for the practice of judo, being grasped by the hand and thrown over the Japanese shoulder to the ground. If at all possible they were then beaten out to work. This was done by a Japanese-Malay interpreter and other members of the Butai (name unknown).

Reported by Capt. RLG Dawson, RAMC.

18. Upper Timonta Coolie Camp. Between August and December 1943.

A coolie accused of theft was reported to the Japanese by an Indian dresser named Nair. A Japanese L/Cpl with the dresser took the coolie into the nearby jungle, whence a shot was heard. The coolie had been shot.

Labourers, who had stolen rice, were made to maintain a bent position over fires.

Reported by 7538201 Pte. R.E. Jones, RAMC.

19. Capt. W.G. Anderson, IMS, made a request that very sick coolies should be sent to hospital and was struck over the head with a sheathed sword by Japanese Officer Aota.

20. Koncuita Camp. About August 1943.

Pte. B. Cussens, AAMC, reports that 50 to 60 cholera suspects were each given a large dose of morphia by a Japanese corporal and the following morning survivors were given a cup of saturated potassium permanganate. All died.

===== Page 27 =====
21. Wanyei Hospital.
An Indian coolie was swung round by the hair for stealing.
Reported by Sgt. Stoneman, RANC.

Major.
Medical Officer
Johnson Volunteer Engineers.

Dr. R'Force to Sian.

95/6.43

===== Page 28 =====
54007

Keep

1997

===== Page 29 =====
51007

===== Page 30 =====
Report on Malayan Labour on Bangkok - Moulmein Railway. 1945. MS Records of the British Colonial Office CO 273/678/1. The National Archives (Kew, United Kingdom). State Papers Online Colonial, link.gale.com/apps/doc/YQLYUK615854015/SPOC?u=nuslib&sid=bookmark-SPOC&xid=e4ae5621. Accessed 1 Mar. 2026.

Gale Document Number: GALE|YQLYUK615854015

